1.1	NCSA Telnet


Starting and Quitting NCSA Telnet	1.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                                





1.1	NCSA Telnet

Starting and Quitting NCSA Telnet	1.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991



6/30/91




Chapter 1	Starting and Quitting NCSA Telnet



Chapter Overview
Starting the Program
Using the Help Screen
Quitting NCSA Telnet

Chapter Overview

This chapter introduces and describes the basic steps involved in 
using NCSA Telnet for the IBM PC:

•	starting the program
•	setting the terminal type
•	opening and closing a telnet connection

The chapter assumes that your system or network administrator 
has installed NCSA Telnet on your system, assigned an IP 
address to your IBM PC, and given you a login name and password 
for the computer to which you want to connect. For information 
regarding installation and customization procedures, refer to 
Chapter 7, "Installation and Configuration."

If you require additional information regarding the IBM interface 
or command line structure, please refer to your IBM PC user's 
guide.


Starting the Program 

To run NCSA Telnet from the PC command line, from any 
subdirectory, enter:

C:\ > telnet machinename 

This command initiates a connection to the remote computer with 
the name given as the machinename parameter. Normally the 
host machine immediately prompts you for a login name and 
password to begin the session.

NCSA Telnet emulates a VT100 terminal. When you log in to a 
host, the host operating system does not know what type of terminal 
you are using. Consult the operating system manual for how to set 
terminal type and try setting it to VT100 or VT102. For systems that 
do not support VT100 (such as many UNIX systems), use VT100, 
which is compatible with VT102 emulators. These examples show 
how to set the terminal type for two popular operating systems, 
UNIX (using the C shell) and VAX/VMS.

newton% set term=vt100;tset	For UNIX hosts.

B$ SET TERM/INQ			For VAX/VMS hosts.

Using the Help Screen

For a command summary, press ALT-H. A one-screen summary 
of command keys appears, as shown in Figure 1.1. The online help 
summary serves as your quick reference to the command keys.
Figure 1.1. NCSA Telnet Help 
Screen

Keyboard usage for NCSA telnet:

Alt-A	add a session	Alt-Y	Interrupt Process
Alt-N	next session	Alt-B	Previous Session
Alt-D	Dump Screen to Capture file	Alt-O	Abort Output
Alt-Z	message screen	Alt-Q	Are you there?
Alt-E	escape to DOS shell	Alt-U	Erase line
Alt-G	graphics menu	Alt-K	Erase Kharacter
Alt-C	toggle capture on/off	Alt-V	Paste Capture to Session
Alt-R	reset VT100 screen	HOME	exit graphics mode
Alt-H	this help screen	Ctrl-HOME	clear/enter graphics mode

ScrLock	pause/restart screen (DO NOT
	use Ctrl-NumLock)

ScrLock	enter/exit scroll-back mode

Alt-F	start file transfer as if typed:
	ftp [internet address]

Alt-I	send my internet address to host
	as if typed

Alt-S	skip scrolling, jump ahead

Alt-P	change a parameter, one of:
	color, capture file name, backspace,
	session name, screen mode

Alt-X	close connection

CTRL-Shift-F3	abort program completely.
	STRONGLY discouraged


Press ESC for information page, space bar to return to session:


NOTE:  See Chapter 4, "Utility Programs," for information on 
other network utilities, such as the following:  finger, ftp, lpq, lpr, 
lprm, rexec, and set clock.


Quitting NCSA Telnet

To exit the program, log out of the host machine using the 
appropriate logout procedure for that machine. If you have 
concurrent sessions with more than one machine, you must log out 
of each machine. Then NCSA Telnet exits and the DOS prompt is 
displayed.

If one of the hosts crashes, or a session is otherwise hung up, press 
ALT-X. NCSA Telnet first prompts you for confirmation and then 
attempts to close the session while preserving your other live 
sessions. 

When all else fails, and it appears that all of the connections are 
completely jammed, press CTRL-Shift-F3 to abort the program. 
Only use CTRL-Shift-F3 as a last resort.

Pressing CTRL-C or CTRL-BREAK sends a CTRL-C to the host. 
You can neither use these commands to break out of NCSA Telnet, 
nor end your session.
2.1	NCSA Telnet


Introduction to Managing Sessions	2.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                                





2.1	NCSA Telnet

Introduction to Managing Sessions	2.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991




6/30/91




Chapter 2	Introduction to Managing Sessions



Chapter Overview
Keyboard Usage
Multiple Sessions
Opening Multiple Initial Sessions
Using the Status Line
Opening Additional Sessions
Indicating the Host
Estimating Host Response Time
Using Scrollback Mode
Using the Cut and Paste Functions
Switching Between Sessions (ALT-N)
Displaying Console Messages (ALT-M)
Exiting the Present Connection (ALT-X)
Capture File Operations
Designating a Capture File
Using PRN
Using One Capture at a Time

Chapter Overview

This chapter introduces NCSA Telnet's capability for multiple 
connections with one or more hosts. The chapter describes 
standard VT100 key emulation, keys for some common EDT 
operations, how to work with multiple sessions, and operations 
with the capture file.


Keyboard Usage

When NCSA Telnet is running, the PC appears to the host as a 
VT100 terminal. For keys that the PC keyboard and the VT100 
keyboard have in common, NCSA Telnet transmits the keystrokes 
unmodified. However, the VT100 keyboard has some keys that the 
PC keyboard does not have, and also treats other PC board keys 
differently. Furthermore, many VT100 keys have special 
meanings when they are transferred to the host. To provide full 
VT100 functionality, telnet programmers have designated some 
PC keys to emulate the operation of VT100 keys. 

Table 2.1 lists the PC keys to use for VT100 terminal emulation. 

Table 2.1	Keys Used for 
VT100 Terminal 
Emulation
To Send the VT100 Code	Press PC Key(s)

RETURN	ENTER

DELETE*	BACKSPACE*

BACKSPACE*	CTRL-
	BACKSPACE*

LINE FEED	CTRL-ENTER

Keypad ENTER 	Keypad ENTER 
(not identical to RETURN)

Keypad . (decimal point)	Keypad .

Keypad - (hyphen)	Keypad -

Keypad , (comma)	Keypad ,

Keypad 0 to 9	Keypad 0 to 9

≠, Ø, ¨, Æ	CTRL-Keypad ≠, Ø, ¨, Æ

PF1 to PF4	F1 to F4

NOTE:  "Keypad" refers to the numbers and characters on the 
right-hand side of your keyboard.


For Extended Keyboards:
≠, Ø, ¨, Æ	Grey ≠, Ø, ¨, Æ

*See Chapter 3, "More About Managing Sessions," and Chapter 7, 
"Installation and Configuration," for information on how to 
switch the designations of these keys.


Multiple Sessions

Opening Multiple Initial 
Sessions
When you first run NCSA Telnet, you can start up multiple 
sessions with a single command.

C:\> telnet machinename [machinename ...]

where machinename is the name of the machine you want to 
connect to. For example, if you enter telnet yoyodyne you would 
be connecting to the machine named yoyodyne.

To start up multiple sessions, enter the additional machinenames 
on the same line. Even if you do not choose multiple sessions when 
you first run NCSA Telnet, you can add sessions later. 


Using the Status Line
Because only 24 lines are needed for VT100 terminal emulation, 
line 25 on your PC screen is used to indicate the connection status 
of your terminal sessions. For each host you are connected to, a 
session name appears in reverse video. The name in the lower-left 
corner of the screen is the current session. Beside each name is a 
status box that indicates various attributes of a session:

gray	Connection is established, waiting
small box	Active connection, always in lower left corner
*	Connection pending, trying to connect to host
/ or \	Text has been written to this invisible session

Flags appear in the lower-right corner if you are either in the 
Scrollback mode or have a capture file open. If you are 
transferring files, the FTP status appears in the lower-right corner 
as well.  Finally, a clock appears in the lower-right corner if you 
enable the clock mode.


Opening Additional 
Sessions
When you've initially opened a connection to a single host, you 
can open a second connection, to that host or a different one, by 
pressing ALT-A (A for add). NCSA Telnet responds by prompting 
you for the name of a computer to which it should attempt a 
connection.

Indicating the Host
NCSA Telnet can only communicate with host computers that have 
IP addresses. You or the NCSA Telnet program can look up IP 
addresses in several different ways.

1.	Use any name that is in the configuration file. (Your system 
administrator can tell you the names listed there.)
2.	Your system administrator can configure NCSA Telnet to use 
the domain-based nameserver to look up host names. Any name 
that can be resolved by the domain nameserver can be used. An 
example is sri-nic.arpa.

3.	Use the full IP number of the machine, in decimal, separated by 
periods, such as 192.17.22.20.If the machine is on the same 
Ethernet,

4.	 If the machine is on the same Ethernet, enter a pound sign (#), 
followed by the host number it uses on your Ethernet. The host 
number the machine determined by the class of addressing and 
the subnet mask (which your system administrator can 
determine for you). For example, if your PC is host 
192.17.22.20, you can access host 192.17.22.30 by entering 
#30 for the host address.

NCSA Telnet allows you to specify which port number (on the host) 
you are connecting to. When you enter the host number, enter a # 
symbol right after the IP number, then enter the port number you 
wish to connect to. For example, if you enter 141.142.221.17#2000, 
this command connects you to the machine 141.142.221.17, port 
number 2000.


Estimating the Host 
Response Time
NCSA Telnet attempts to make a login connection with the named 
host. Usually the connection is instanta-neous, and the host 
machine prompts you for a login name immediately. However, the 
connection attempt may take several seconds. Even after NCSA 
Telnet completes the connection, it may take additional time (up to 
two minutes) to prompt you for a login name if a remote host is 
heavily loaded. 

When the connection is established, the asterisk (*) in the status 
box for the connection disappears or changes to a small box. If 
NCSA Telnet makes the connection, but the remote host does not let 
you log in, you may want to press ALT-X to end the connection.


Using Scrollback Mode
The SCROLL LOCK key performs two functions. It prevents the 
screen from scrolling when new text arrives, and also puts you 
into scrollback mode. In scrollback mode, both the up and down 
arrow keys and PG UP and PG DN keys scroll the screen 
backwards and forwards. When you press the SCROLL LOCK key 
again, it ends scrollback mode and resets the working area of the 
screen. 

The number of lines the program saves is limited by the amount of 
memory in your machine and its setting in the configuration file. 
If your PC runs out of memory, or the specified number of lines 
have already been stored, NCSA Telnet starts dropping the lines at 
the top of the scrollback as you add new lines to the bottom.

NOTE:  No other commands work while you are using scrollback 
mode.


Using the Cut and Paste 
Functions
The cut and paste functions allow you to copy blocks of text from 
one session to another, or within the same session. To use these 
functions, follow these steps:

1.	Enter Scrollback mode via Scrl_Lock or the right mouse button.

2.	Move the cursor to the beginning position of the text you wish to 
copy, and press the space bar.

3.	Move the cursor to the end of the text and press the space bar 
again. This action selects the area to copy. 

4.	Press ALT-C while still in scrollback mode. This action copies 
the text into a buffer.

5.	Exit Scrollback mode, and switch sessions by pressing ALT-N 
or ALT-B, if you desire. 

6.	Position the cursor where you wish to insert the text, and press 
ALT-V. This action inserts the text at the current position as if 
you had typed it in.

You can use the copy and paste functions without touching the 
keyboard if you have a Microsoft-compatible mouse attached and 
driver loaded. 

1.	Press the right mouse button to enter Scrollback mode. 

2.	Scroll to the beginning of the text you wish to copy, and press the 
left mouse button. 

3.	Move the cursor to the end of the text, and press the left mouse 
button again. 

4.	Press and hold the left mouse button, press the right mouse 
button, then release both buttons. This action copies the text into 
the buffer. 

5.	Exit Scrollback mode by pressing the right mouse button. 

To paste the buffer to the screen, press and hold the right mouse 
button, then press the left mouse button, then release them both. The 
text should appear as if you typed it in.


Switching Between 
Sessions (ALT-N)
The status line at the bottom of the screen indicates the active telnet 
sessions. To rotate to the next session, press ALT-N (for next). 
This action makes the next session the current one and moves its 
name to the lower left corner of the screen. Any characters you now 
type on the keyboard are sent to this, the current session.

To move back one session, press ALT-B (for back).


Displaying Console 
Messages (ALT-Z)
In the process of connecting and communicating with other hosts 
via TCP/IP, NCSA Telnet provides you with information on the 
console (message) screen. To see this screen, press ALT-Z. Your 
sessions are still running; however, you cannot see them. When 
you have viewed the messages, press any key to return to your 
session. The information on the console screen can tell you about 
errors, warnings, FTP access to your PC, and network conditions 
that may be of concern to network administrators.


Exiting the Present 
Connection (ALT-X)
To close the current session, press ALT-X. A dialog box appears 
prompting you to confirm that the connection should be closed. 
Once confirmed, the connection shuts down.  The close may take 
several seconds to complete.  

NOTE:  You can press ALT-X to log out of a host as well as 
terminate a given session, but the command bypasses normal 
conventions and may cause problems for the host. The correct way 
to close a connection with a host is to log out of the host using the 
normal logout procedure for that host. 


Capture File Operations 

Text that appears on the screen can be captured and sent to a file or 
the local printer. When you press ALT-C, capture is turned on. 
Pressing ALT-C again toggles capture off. Any text that appears on 
the screen is captured and appended to the capture file. NCSA 
Telnet never erases the capture file, only appends text to it. The 
default capture file is named capfile, but you can change that, as 
discussed in the next session.


Designating a Capture File
You can designate a different capture file by using the Parameter 
menu. When you press ALT-P the Parameter menu appears. (Most 
of the Parameter menu choices are discussed in Chapter 3, "More 
About Managing Sessions.") Use the arrow keys to select the 
Parameter menu entry for the capture filename. Press RETURN 
to clear the current entry and then enter your new filename. After 
you've changed the name of the capture file, all subsequent ALT-C 
commands will use the new capture file. You can also change the 
name of the capture file "permanently" in the configuration file 
(see Chapter 6, "Installation and Configuration.").


Using PRN
If you want to send all captured text directly to a local printer, 
follow the directions above for naming new filenames. Enter prn 
as the new filename. This name is the default filename for 
printing in the NCSA Telnet program. PC-DOS reserves this 
filename for the printer.

A common problem can occur while you are capturing files to the 
printer that can cause NCSA Telnet to abort. If the printer is off-
line or out of paper when a capture begins, the message:

Error, A(bort) R(etry) or I(gnore)? 

appears on the screen. For the former problem, turn the printer on 
and off and then press R for retry. Do not press A at this point 
because it will abort NCSA Telnet and cut off all of your network 
connections.


Using One Capture at a 
Time
You can capture text to a file or the printer in any session, but not 
for more than one session at a time. When a capture is active for a 
session in the background, you cannot invoke capture on the 
current session. If you attempt to do so, you will not get the 
confirmation message on line 25 and NCSA Telnet reminds you of 
the error. The capture procedure will continue to capture all text for 
the background session while you interact with the current 
session.

If you press ALT-D, NCSA Telnet dumps the contents of the current 
session screen into the capture file if one is not already open. If a 
capture file is open, nothing happens when you press ALT-D.

NOTE:  If you press ALT-D, NCSA Telnet dumps only the contents 
of the current session screen into the capture file. If you press ALT-
C, however, NCSA dumps everything from your current session 
into the capture file.
3.1	NCSA Telnet


More About Managing Sessions	3.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                                




3.1	NCSA Telnet

More About Managing Sessions	3.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications	

June 1991



6/30/91




Chapter 3	More About Managing Sessions



Chapter Overview
Keyboard Commands
Using the Skip Command (ALT-S)
Resetting the VT100 Screen (ALT-R)
Aborting the Program (CTRL-SHIFT-F3)
Escaping to DOS Shell (ALT-E)
Parameter Menu
Using Screen Text Colors
Using Remote Echo and Local Echo
Using the Backspace Key
Changing the Session Name
Changing the Terminal Type 
Using Line Wrapping
Using Output Mapping
Changing the Capture Filename
Using Screen Mode 
Using File Transfer Mode
Using Clock Mode

Chapter Overview

This chapter continues the discussion of multiple sessions and 
describes more advanced aspects of the NCSA Telnet working 
environment. The chapter explains how to reset the VT100 screen, 
how to abort NCSA Telnet, the DOS shell feature, and the 
Parameters menu options.


Keyboard Commands

Using the Skip Command 
(ALT-S)
The skip command causes the screen to "skip ahead" over 
scrolling text. The text is placed into the scrollback region, but the 
screen update advances to the end of the local network buffer 
instead of printing every line on the screen. This feature is useful 
for quickly bypassing seemingly endless lines of output from 
certain commands. To use the command, press ALT-S and the 
screen will pause, then redraw at the end of the local buffer. ALT-S 
won't solve all of the network buffering problems for interactive 
use, but it should help. Capture to disk and scrollback commands 
are not affected by the skip command.


Resetting the VT100 Screen 
(ALT-R)
ALT-R clears and resets all modes associated with the current 
virtual VT100 screen. Some host programs can accidentally set 
graphics mode on or fail to leave graphics mode. By pressing 
ALT-R, NCSA Telnet will override all VT100 mode settings 
including the following:  turning off wrap mode, resetting 
graphics mode, setting the keypad mode back to the default, and 
resetting tabs to every eight spaces. After using ALT-R, you may 
wish to set your terminal type again to allow the host to reset 
whatever VT100 modes it needs.


Aborting the Program 
(CTRL-SHIFT-F3)
If for some reason none of the current connections respond, 
SCROLL LOCK is not on, and ALT-R and ALT-X do not appear to 
have any effect, CTRL-SHIFT-F3 is a general abort command that 
exits NCSA Telnet and returns you to DOS. If you do abort NCSA 
Telnet with CTRL-SHIFT-F3, NCSA Telnet cannot notify the 
host(s) that your session(s) are terminated. Your sessions are left 
in an undetermined state. This situation can cause a variety of 
problems for the host, because it cannot immediately determine 
that the session has ended. For example, the programs may 
continue to run on the host, even though you exited NCSA Telnet 
with CTRL-SHIFT-F3.


Escaping to DOS Shell 
(ALT-E)
Pressing ALT-E to escape to DOS preserves your connections while 
you use the DOS command shell. You may use most DOS 
commands and programs, including those which look at 
directories, edit source files, or even compile programs. To return 
to NCSA Telnet, you must enter the command exit at the DOS 
prompt.
During the escape to DOS, NCSA Telnet monitors the Ethernet for 
incoming packets every one-half second. If you run other 
programs which affect the Ethernet or the timer which NCSA 
Telnet uses, your connections may be lost—or worse—your 
computer may crash. The following programs are examples of 
those which terminate the network handling of NCSA Telnet, 
causing connections to be lost or DOS to crash:

•	SideKick (it turns off timer processes, so it can cause lost 
connections)

•	All network programs (they reset the Ethernet board)

•	NCSA Telnet (it is a network program)

•	User FTP (it, too, is a network program)

•	format, the DOS format utility for floppy disks

•	FileCommand II

NOTE: Watch memory usage to prevent crashing. Also, 
remember to exit DOS when you have finished your DOS activities.

Parameter Menu

Press ALT-P to display the Parameter menu options, which appear 
on the screen as shown in Figure 3.1. These options control the 
settings for text color, echo mode, backspace key, session name, 
terminal type, capture file name, screen mode and file transfer 
mode. You can change the fields that are shown in bold to different 
values.

Figure 3.1	Parameter Menu

ALT-P                         Parameter menu
   <      Select parameters, F1 to accept, F10 to leave unchanged      >

   --------------- Color setup and session parameters -----------------
 Text:         normal    reverse   underline
	Normal Foreground (nfcolor)	-	green
	Normal Background (nbcolor)	-	black
	Reverse Foreground (rfcolor)	-	black
	Reverse Background (rbcolor)	-	white
	Underline Foreground (ufcolor)	-	blue
	Underline Background (ubcolor)	-	black
	Use remote echo or local echo	-	Remote echo
	Backspace key sends	-	Delete
	Session name	*>	ahostname
	Terminal type	-	VT102 and Tek4014
	Line Wrapping	-	Wrapping On
	Output Mapping	-	Mapping Off
   -------------- Parameters which apply to all sessions --------------
	Capture file name	*>	capfile
  Screen mode (for BIOS compatibility)	Direct to screen
	File transfer is	-	Enabled
	Remote Copying is	-	Enabled
	Clock is 	Enabled


Use arrow keys to select, Enter clears changeable field (*>)


The up arrow, down arrow, HOME, and END keys allow you to 
move the cursor from option to option. The left and right arrow 
keys rotate through the allowed settings for each option. For each 
field that you wish to change, move the cursor to that field and press 
the left or right arrow until the desired value appears. After 
changing all of the fields that you wish to change, press the F1 key 
to return to your session with the changes in effect. If you make a 
mistake, or decide that no changes are necessary, press ESC to 
return to your session without any changes taking place.

There are two special fields, marked with the symbol *>, to 
indicate that the present value may be changed by typing another. 
To change one of these, place the cursor on top of the changeable 
field and then press RETURN. The program blanks the field and 
allows you to enter a new value. Press RETURN when you are 
finished entering the new value. After you enter a new value, but 
before you press F1, the old value still remains in memory and you 
may use the left or right arrow keys to regain the old value.

Following are descriptions of the parameters you can set.


Using Screen Text Colors
Host programs expect to be able to control the attributes of 
characters on the VT100 screen. Command codes are sent to your 
PC to display characters in normal, reverse, underlined, 
blinking, and bold attributes, or combinations of these. When 
normal, reverse, and underline text are required, you have control 
over which colors are used. When blink or bold attributes are 
required, NCSA Telnet adds them to your selected colors.

For normal, reverse, and underlined characters, NCSA Telnet 
gives you your choice of foreground and background colors, a total 
of six settings. The color choices for a PC color video display are 
black, blue, green, cyan, red, magenta, yellow, and white. The 
foreground color command allows bright versions of these colors, 
while the background color command allows users to set blinking 
as an attribute. For each of the text modes, normal, reverse, and 
underlined, use the Parameter menu to select the foreground and 
background colors. As you change the selections, the sample text 
on the fourth line of the screen provides an example of how the text 
will appear in the VT100 emulation.

On monochrome screens, when you display a character in the color 
blue, the PC produces a visible underline on the screen instead of 
blue coloring.

Color screens do not have the visible underline capability and use 
a visible blue color instead of underlining.

Bold and blinking attributes from the VT100 screen appear as bold 
and blinking characters on the PC screen.


Using Remote Echo and 
Local Echo
When the response time of the network is long (such as with 
satellite transmission), you may want to buffer your keyboard 
input locally, only sending characters to the host when you press 
RETURN. This action is often referred to as a line mode or local 
echo mode. The alternative to line mode is called character mode 
or remote echo mode, where the local program immediately sends, 
and remote host echoes, every character over the network.

In local echo mode, NCSA Telnet  buffers most characters typed at 
the keyboard until you press RETURN, which sends the characters 
to the host all in one packet. There are some exceptions to this rule.

•	CTRL-U erases the local buffer.

•	Backspace (CTRL-H) erases the most recent character added to 
the local buffer.

•	Tab (CTRL-I) forces NCSA Telnet to send the local buffer (with 
the tab).

•	All other control characters echo with a caret (e.g., ^A) and 
force NCSA Telnet to send the local buffer with the control 
character included.
•	Arrow keys and all other unprintable ASCII characters, the 
escape character for example, force NCSA Telnet to send the 
local buffer, with the character included.

•	You cannot send a CTRL-U or Backspace to the host in line 
mode.

•	ALT keys and other local command keys are not affected by 
local echo mode.

NOTE: For full screen editing, character mode (remote echo) is 
necessary, so most hosts use this mode. When full screen editing 
is not required, line mode may be more efficient.


Using the Backspace Key
NCSA Telnet automatically translates BACKSPACE keypresses 
into DELETE codes, for compatibility with systems that prefer the 
use of DELETE to BACKSPACE. If you find that your backspaces 
are not being accepted, the host you are connected to may prefer the 
reverse setting. To test this possibility, use the Parameter menu to 
change the default translation so the BACKSPACE key functions 
as backspace. If the result is that your backspaces are accepted, 
then the host does prefer the BACKSPACE to DELETE. If you 
require the reverse setting frequently, you or your system 
administrator may want to permanently reset the backspace 
function using the configuration file, as described in Chapter 7, 
"Installation and Configuration."


Changing the Session 
Name
The status line shows a 13-character session name for each active 
session in the lower right-hand corner. For each session, the 
machine name that you typed to initiate the first session displays 
as the default name for successive sessions. The Parameter menu 
allows you to change the status line name for the current session. 
Press RETURN to clear the current entry and type in a new name. 
Only the first 13 characters are used.


Changing the Terminal 
Type
Generally, the default terminal type of VT100 with Tektronix 4014 
is acceptable. Because specific cases may exist where you need to 
force some restrictions on the way the terminal acts, you may want 
to limit the amount of emulation that NCSA Telnet does. The three 
choices of terminal types are: 

•	VT100 terminal with Tektronix 4014 graphics

•	VT100 only—graphics commands ignored, but VT100 
commands accepted

•	Dumb terminal—no VT100 codes or Tektronix codes 
interpreted


Using Line Wrapping
If you enable the line wrapping feature, the text wraps when it 
reaches the end of a line. Otherwise, the text piles up at the end of 
the line.


Using Output Mapping
The output mapping function allows you to translate characters 
from the host machine as the screen displays them. This function 
is similar to keyboard mapping, except that keyboard mapping 
works in reverse.


Changing the Capture 
Filename
You can change the name of the current capture file in the 
Parameter menu. Press RETURN to clear the current entry and 
then enter your new filename. After changing the name of the 
capture file, all subsequent ALT-C commands use the new capture 
file. You can also change the name of the capture file 
"permanently" in the configuration file (see Chapter 7, 
"Installation and Configuration."). See Chapter 2, "Introduction 
to Managing Sessions," for a description of capture file operations.


Using Screen Mode (BIOS 
Compatibility for 
Windowing Packages)
In the normal fast mode, writes are made directly to the screen for 
increased speed; however, this mode is incompatible with 
windowing packages like Topview or Microsoft Windows and 
may cause snow on some screens. To avoid small problems, 
developers have created a compatibility mode within NCSA Telnet 
where IBM's BIOS calls are used for all access to the screen.

Usually, the windowing compatibility mode is set up in the 
configuration file with the bios option. However, if a change is 
needed once you are in the program, the Parameter menu option is 
available.


Using File Transfer Mode
NCSA Telnet separates the file transfer mode into an option for 
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) and an option for rcp. The 
Parameter menu allows you to disable or enable file transfers. 
When you select Disabled, neither FTP nor rcp is allowed. When 
you select Enabled, the FTP and rcp servers are restarted. Chapter 
5, "File Transfer," contains more information on the file transfer 
methods for NCSA Telnet. You or your system administrator can 
set the default file transfer modes for FTP and rcp in the 
configuration file (see Chapter 7, "Installation and 
Configuration.").


Using Clock Mode
When you enable the clock mode option, NCSA Telnet displays a 
digital clock in the corner of the screen.
	


	







                                                                





4.1	NCSA Telnet

Utility Programs	4.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991

                                                              


June 1991




Chapter 4	Utility Programs



Chapter Overview
finger
Name
Command Line 
Description
Options
ftp
Name
Command Line
Description
Options 
Commands
Aborting a File Transfer
File Naming Conventions
File Transfer Parameters
lpq
Name 
Command Line
Description
Options
Files
See Also
Diagnostics
Bugs
lpr
Name 
Command Line
Description
Options
Diagnostics
lprm
Name 
Command Line
Description
Options
Diagnostics
net14
Name
Command Line
Description
Usage
Options
rsh
Name
Command Line
Description
Options
setclock
Name 
Command Line
Description
Options


Overview

This appendix outlines in detail some helpful command 
programs. Almost all the documentation for each of the commands 
was taken from their online version written by Sun Microsystems 
Inc. You can access this same online information by entering man 
filename when you connect to a UNIX machine. For instance, to 
access information about the finger command, you would enter:  
man finger.


finger

Name
The finger command lists information about users.


Command Line
finger [ options ] name...


Description
By default, finger lists information about logged-in users, 
including their: login name, full name, terminal name 
(prepended with a `*' if write-permission is denied), idle time, 
login time, and location (comment field in /etc/ttytab for users 
logged in locally, hostname for users logged in remotely) if 
known.

Idle time is minutes if it is a single integer, hours and minutes if a 
':' is present, or days and hours if a 'd' is present.

When one or more name arguments are given, more detailed 
information is given for each name specified, whether they are 
logged in or not. A name may be a first or last name, or an account 
name. Information is presented in a multi-line format, and 
includes, in addition to the information mentioned above:

the user's home directory and login shell; the time 
they logged in; if they are currently logged in, or the 
time they last logged in if they are not; the terminal 
or host from which they logged in; and, if a terminal, 
the comment field in /etc/ttytab for that terminal; the 
last time they received mail; the last time they read 
their mail; any plan contained in the file .plan in 
the user's home directory; and any project on which 
they are working, described in the file .project (also 
in that directory)

If a name argument contains an at-sign, `@', then a connection is 
attempted to the machine named after the at-sign, and the remote 
finger daemon is queried. The data returned by that daemon is 
printed. If a long format printout is to be produced, the /W option is 
passed to the remote finger daemon.


Options
-m
Matches arguments only on user name (not first or last name).


-l
Forces long output format.


-s
Forces short output format.


-q
Forces quick output format, which is similar to short format except 
that only the login name, terminal, and login time are printed.


-i
Forces ``idle'' output format, which is similar to short format 
except that only the login name, terminal, login time, and idle 
time are printed.


-b
Suppresses printing the user's home directory and shell in a long 
format printout.


-f
Suppresses printing the header that is normally printed in a non-
long format printout.


-w
Suppresses printing the full name in a short format printout.


-h
Suppresses printing of the .project file in a long format printout.


-p
Suppresses printing of the .plan file in a long format printout.


ftp

Name
ftp - file transfer program


Command Line
ftp [ -dginvrsmhfe ] [ hostname ]


Description
ftp is the user interface to the ARPANET standard File Transfer 
Protocol (FTP). ftp transfers files to and from a remote network 
site.

The client host with which ftp is to communicate may be specified 
on the command line. If this is done, ftp immediately attempts to 
establish a connection to an FTP server on that host; otherwise, ftp 
enters its command interpreter and awaits instructions from the 
user. When ftp is awaiting commands from the user, it displays 
the prompt `ftp>'.


Options
You may specify the options at the command line or to the 
command interpreter.


-d
Enables debugging.


-e <filename>
Same as -f except prompts you for login name and password.


-f <filename>
Non-interactive FTP session. Executes commands in 
<filename>.


-g
Disables filename globbing.


-h <filename>
Gives location of the config.tel file.


-i
Turns off interactive prompting during multiple file transfers.


-m
Uses built-in "more" command.

-n
Does not attempt auto-login upon initial connection. If autologin is 
enabled, ftp checks the .netrc file in the user's home directory for 
an entry describing an account on the remote machine. If no entry 
exists, ftp will prompt for the login name of the account on the 
remote machine (the default is the login name on the local 
machine), and, if necessary, prompts for a password and an 
account with which to login.


-r
Disables output redirection.


-s
Disables slash flipping.


-v
Shows all responses from the remote server, as well as reports on 
data transfer statistics. This is turned on by default if ftp is 
running interactively with its input coming from the user's 
terminal.


Commands
! [ command ]
Runs command as a shell command on the local machine. If no 
command is given, invoke an interactive shell.


account [ passwd ]
Supplies a supplemental password required by a remote system for 
access to resources once a login has been successfully completed. If 
no argument is included, the user will be prompted for an account 
password in a non-echoing input mode.


ascii
Sets the representation type to network ASCII. This is the default 
type.


bell
Sounds a bell after each file transfer command is completed.


binary
Sets the representation type to image.


bye
Terminates the FTP session with the remote server and exits ftp. 
An EOF will also terminate the session and exit.


cd remote-directory
Changes the working directory on the remote machine to remote-
directory.


close
Terminates the FTP session with the remote server, and returns to 
the command interpreter. Any defined macros are erased.


delete remote-file
Deletes the file remote-file on the remote machine.


debug [ debug-value ]
Toggles debugging mode. If an optional debug-value is specified it 
is used to set the debugging level. When debugging is on, ftp prints 
each command sent to the remote machine, preceded by the string `-
->'.


dir [ remote-directory ] [ local-file ]
Prints a listing of the directory contents in the directory, remote-
directory, and, optionally, places the output in local-file. If no 
directory is specified, the current working directory on the remote 
machine is used. If no local file is specified, or local-file is
 `-', output is sent to the terminal.


get remote-file [ local-file ]
Retrieves the remote-file and stores it on the local machine. If the 
local file name is not specified, it is given the same name it has on 
the remote machine, subject to alteration by the current case, 
ntrans, and nmap settings. The current settings for representation 
type, file structure, and transfer mode are used while transferring 
the file.


glob
Toggles filename expansion, or globbing, for mdelete, mget and 
mput. If globbing is turned off, filenames are taken literally.

Globbing for mput is done as in csh(1). For mdelete and mget, each 
remote file name is expanded separately on the remote machine, 
and the lists are not merged.

Expansion of a directory name is likely to be radically different 
from expansion of the name of an ordinary file: the exact result 
depends on the remote operating system and FTP server, and can 
be previewed by doing `mls remote-files -'.

mget and mput are not meant to transfer entire directory subtrees 
of files. You can do this by transferring a tar(1) archive of the 
subtree (using a representation type of image as set by the binary 
command).


hash
Toggles hash-sign (#) printing for each data block transferred. 
The size of a data block is 1024 bytes.


help [ command ]
Prints an informative message about the meaning of the 
command. If no argument is given, ftp prints a list of the known 
commands.


lcd [ directory ]
Changes the working directory on the local machine. If no 
directory is specified, the user's home directory is used.


ls [ remote-directory ] [ local-file ]
Prints an abbreviated listing of the contents of a directory on the 
remote machine. If remote-directory is left unspecified, the 
current working directory is used. If no local file is specified, or if 
local-file is `-', the output is sent to the terminal.


lls
Works the same as the ls command except the local machine is 
used.


mdir remote-files local-file
Like dir, except multiple remote files may be specified. If 
interactive prompting is on, ftp will prompt the user to verify that 
the last argument is indeed the target local file for receiving mdir 
output.


mget remote-files
Expands the remote-files on the remote machine and does a get for 
each file name thus produced. See glob for details on the filename 
expansion. Resulting file names will then be processed according 
to case, ntrans, and nmap settings. Files are transferred into the 
local working directory, which can be changed with `lcd 
directory'; new local directories can be created with `! mkdir 
directory'.


mkdir directory-name
Makes a directory on the remote machine.


mls remote-files local-file
Like ls(1V), except multiple remote files may be specified. If 
interactive prompting is on, ftp will prompt the user to verify that 
the last argument is indeed the target local file for receiving mls 
output.


mode [ mode-name ]
Sets the transfer mode to mode-name. The only valid mode-name 
is stream, which corresponds to the default stream mode.


more 
Toggles the more mode status. When more mode is on, this 
command breaks long directories into pages and prompts between 
displaying them.


open host [ port ]
Establishes a connection to the specified host FTP server. An 
optional port number may be supplied, in which case, ftp will 
attempt to contact an FTP server at that port. If the auto-login option 
is on (default), ftp will also attempt to automatically log the user in 
to the FTP server (see below).


prompt
Toggles interactive prompting. Interactive prompting occurs 
during multiple file transfers to allow the user to selectively 
retrieve or store files. By default, prompting is turned on. If 
prompting is turned off, any mget or mput will transfer all files, 
and any mdelete will delete all files.


put local-file [ remote-file]
Stores a local file on the remote machine. If remote-file is left 
unspecified, the local file name is used after processing according 
to any ntrans or nmap settings in naming the remote file. File 
transfer uses the current settings for representation type, file 
structure, and transfer mode.


pwd
Prints the name of the current working directory on the remote 
machine.


quit
Performs the same function as bye.


quote arg1 arg2 ...
Sends the arguments specified, verbatim, to the remote FTP 
server. A single FTP reply code is expected in return.


recv remote-file [ local-file]
Performs the same function as get.


remotehelp [ command-name ]
Requests help from the remote FTP server. If a command-name is 
specified it is supplied to the server as well.


rename from to
Renames the file "from" on the remote machine to "to."


rmdir directory-name
Deletes a directory on the remote machine.


send local-file [ remote-file ]
Performs the same function as put.


sendport
Toggles the use of PORT commands. By default, ftp will attempt to 
use a PORT command when establishing a connection for each 
data transfer. The use of PORT commands can prevent delays 
when performing multiple file transfers. If the PORT command 
fails, ftp will use the default data port. When the use of PORT 
commands is disabled, no attempt will be made to use PORT 
commands for each data transfer. This is useful when connected 
to certain FTP implementations that ignore PORT commands but 
incorrectly indicate they have been accepted.


slashflip
Toggles slashflipping command.


status
Shows the current status of ftp.


struct [ struct-name ]
Sets the file structure to struct-name. The only valid struct-name 
is file, which corresponds to the default file structure.


type [ type-name ]
Sets the representation type to type-name. The valid type-names 
are ascii for network ASCII, binary or image for image, and tenex 
for local byte size with a byte size of 8 (used to talk to TENEX 
machines). If no type is specified, the current type is printed. The 
default type is network ASCII.


user user-name [ password ] [ account ] 
Identifies yourself to the remote FTP server. If the password is not 
specified and the server requires it, ftp will prompt the user for it 
(after disabling local echo). If an account field is not specified, 
and the FTP server requires it, the user will be prompted for it. If 
an account field is specified, an account command will be relayed 
to the remote server after the login sequence is completed if the 
remote server did not require it for logging in. Unless ftp is 
invoked with auto-login disabled, this process is done 
automatically on initial connection to the FTP server.


verbose
Toggles verbose mode. In verbose mode, all responses from the 
FTP server are displayed to the user. In addition, if verbose mode 
is on, when a file transfer completes, statistics regarding the 
efficiency of the transfer are reported. By default, verbose mode is 
on if ftp's commands are coming from a terminal, and off 
otherwise.


? [ command ]
Performs the same function as help.

Command arguments which have embedded spaces may be quoted 
with quote (") marks.

If any command argument which is not indicated as being 
optional is not specified, ftp will prompt for that argument.


Aborting a File Transfer
To abort a file transfer, use the terminal interrupt key (usually 
CTRL-C). Sending transfers will be immediately halted. 
Receiving transfers will be halted by sending a ftp protocol ABOR 
command to the remote server, and discarding any further data 
received. The speed at which this is accomplished depends upon the 
remote server's support for ABOR processing. If the remote server 
does not support the ABOR command, an ftp> prompt will not 
appear until the remote server has completed sending the requested 
file.

The terminal interrupt key sequence will be ignored when ftp has 
completed any local processing and is awaiting a reply from the 
remote server. A long delay in this mode may result from the 
ABOR processing described above, or from unexpected behavior by 
the remote server, including violations of the ftp protocol. If the 
delay results from unexpected remote server behavior, the local ftp 
program must be killed by hand.


File Naming Conventions
Local files specified as arguments to ftp commands are processed 
according to the following rules.

1.	If globbing is enabled, local file names are expanded according 
to the rules used in the csh(1); see the glob command. If the ftp 
command expects a single local file (for example, put), only the 
first filename generated by the globbing operation is used.

2.	For mget commands and get commands with unspecified local 
file names, the local filename is the remote filename, which 
may be altered by a case, ntrans, or nmap setting. The resulting 
filename may then be altered if runique is on.

3.	For mput commands and put commands with unspecified 
remote file names, the remote filename is the local filename, 
which may be altered by a ntrans or nmap setting. The 
resulting filename may then be altered by the remote server if 
sunique is on.


File Transfer Parameters
The FTP specification specifies many parameters which may 
affect a file transfer.

The representation type may be one of network ASCII, EBCDIC, 
image, or local byte size with a specified byte size (for PDP-10's 
and PDP-20's mostly). The network ASCII and EBCDIC(rq types 
have a further subtype which specifies whether vertical format 
control (NEWLINE characters, form feeds, etc.) are to be passed 
through (non-print), provided in TELNET format (TELNET 
format controls), or provided in ASA (FORTRAN) (carriage 
control (ASA)) format. ftp supports the network ASCII (subtype 
non-print only) and image types, plus local byte size with a byte 
size of 8 for communicating with TENEX machines.

The file structure may be one of file (no record structure), record, 
or page. ftp supports only the default value, which is file.

The transfer mode may be one of stream, block, or compressed. ftp 
supports only the default value, which is stream.


lpq

Name
lpq - display the queue of printer jobs.


Command Line
lpq [ -Pprinter ] [ -l ] [ + [ interval ] ] [ job# ... ] [ username ... ]


Description
lpq displays the contents of a printer queue. It reports the status of 
jobs specified by job#, or all jobs owned by the user specified by 
username. lpq reports on all jobs in the default printer queue when 
invoked with no arguments.

For each print job in the queue, lpq reports the user's name, current 
position, the names of input files comprising the job, the job 
number (by which it is referred to when using lprm(1)) and the 
total size in bytes. Normally, only as much information as will fit 
on one line is displayed. Jobs are normally queued on a first-in-
first-out basis. Filenames comprising a job may be unavailable, 
such as when lpr is used at the end of a pipeline; in such cases the 
filename field indicates ``(standard input)''.

If lpq warns that there is no daemon present (that is, due to some 
malfunction), the lpc(8) command can be used to restart a printer 
daemon.


Options
-P printer
Displays information about the queue for the specified printer. In 
the absence of the -P option, the queue to the printer specified by the 
PRINTER variable in the environment is used. If the PRINTER 
variable isn't set, the queue for the default printer is used.


-l
Displays queue information in long format; includes the name of 
the host from which the job originated.


+[interval]
Displays the spool queue periodically until it empties. This option 
clears the terminal screen before reporting on the queue. If an 
interval is supplied, lpq sleeps that number of seconds in between 
reports.


Diagnostics
Printer Is Ready and Printing
The lpq program checks to see if there is a printer daemon. If the 
daemon is hung, the super-user can abort the current daemon and 
start a new one using lpc(8). Under some circumstances, lpq 
reports that a printer is ready and printing when the daemon is, in
 fact, hung.


Waiting for Printer to Become Ready (offline ?)
The daemon could not open the printer device. The printer may be 
turned off-line. This message can also occur if a printer is out of 
paper, the paper is jammed, and so on. Another possible cause is 
that a process, such as an output filter, has exclusive use of the 
device. The only recourse in this case is to kill the offending 
process and restart the printer with lpc.


Waiting for Host to Come Up
A daemon is trying to connect to the remote machine named host, 
in order to send the files in the local queue. If the remote machine 
is up, lpd on the remote machine is probably dead or hung and 
should be restarted using lpc.


Sending to Host
The files are being transferred to the remote host, or else the local 
daemon has hung while trying to transfer the files.


Warning:  Printer Is Down
The printer has been marked as being unavailable with lpc.


Warning: No Daemon Present
The lpq process overseeing the spooling queue, as indicated in the 
``lock'' file in that directory, does not exist. This normally occurs 
only when the daemon has unexpectedly died. Check the printer's 
error log for a diagnostic from the deceased process; you can 
restart the printer daemon with lpc.


lpr

Name
lpr - send a job to the printer


Command Line
lpr [ -Pprinter ] [ -#copies ] [ -Cclass ] [ -Jjob ] [ -Ttitle ] [ -i 
[ indent ] ] [ -1234font ] [ -wcols ] [ -B ] [ -r ] [ -m ] [ -h ] [ -s ] 
[ -filter-option ] [ filename ... ]


Description
lpr forwards printer jobs to a spooling area for subsequent printing 
as facilities become available. Each printer job consists of copies of 
(or, with -s , symbolic links to) each filename you specify. The 
spool area is managed by the line printer daemon, lpd(8). lpr reads 
from the standard input if no files are specified.


Options
-Pprinter
Sends output to the named printer. Otherwise send output to the 
printer named in the PRINTER environment variable, or to the 
default printer, lp.


-#copies
Produces the number of copies indicated for each named file. For 
example:

	example% lpr -#3 index.c lookup.c

produces three copies of index.c, followed by three copies of 
lookup.c. On the other hand,

	example% cat index.c lookup.c | lpr

generates three copies of the concatenation of the files.


-Cclass
Prints class as the job classification on the burst page. For 
example,

	example% lpr -C Operations new.index.c

replaces the system name (the name returned by hostname) with 
``Operations'' on the burst page, and prints the file new.index.c.


-Jjob
Prints job as the job name on the burst page. Normally, lpr uses the 
first file's name.


-T title
Uses title instead of the file name for the title used by pr(1V).


-i[indent]
Indents output indent spaces. Eight spaces is the default.

	-1 font
	-2 font
	-3 font
	-4 font

	Mounts the specified font on font position 1, 2, 3 or 4. The 
daemon will construct a .railmag file in the spool directory that 
indicates the mount by referencing /usr/lib/vfont/font.


-wcols
Uses cols as the page width for pr.


-r
Removes the file upon completion of spooling, or upon completion 
of printing with the -s option.


-m
Sends mail upon completion.


-h
Suppresses printing the burst page.


-s
Creates a symbolic link from the spool area to the data files rather 
than trying to copy them (so large files can be printed). This 
means the data files should not be modified or removed until they 
have been printed. In the absence of this option, files larger than 1 
Megabyte in length are truncated. Note: the -s option only works on 
the local host (files sent to remote printer hosts are copied anyway), 
and only with named data files - it doesn't work if lpr is at the end 
of a pipeline.


filter-option
The following single letter options notify the line printer spooler 
that the files are not standard text files. The spooling daemon will 
use the appropriate filters to print the data accordingly.


-p 
Uses pr to format the files (lpr-p is very much like pr | lpr).


-l 
Prints control characters and suppresses page breaks.


-t 
The files contain troff(1) (cat phototypesetter) binary data.


-n 
The files contain data from ditroff (device independent troff).


-d
The files contain data from tex (DVI format from Stanford).


-g
The files contain standard plot data as produced by the plot(3X) 
routines (see also plot(1G) for the filters used by the printer 
spooler).


-v
The files contain a raster image, see rasterfile (5).


-c
The files contain data produced by cifplot.


-f
Interprets the first character of each line as a standard FORTRAN 
carriage control character. If no filter-option is given (and the 
printer can interpret PostScript), the string `%!' as the first two 
characters of a file indicates that it contains PostScript 
commands.


Diagnostics
lpr: copy file is too large
A file is determined to be too ``large'' to print by copying into the 
spool area. Use the -s option as defined above to make a symbolic 
link to the file instead of copying it. A too-large file is 
approximately 1 Megabyte. lpr truncates the file, and prints as 
much of it as it can.


lpr: printer: unknown printer
The printer was not found in the printcap database. Usually this is 
a typing mistake; however, it may indicate a missing or incorrect 
entry in the /etc/printcap file.


lpr: printer: jobs queued, but cannot start daemon.
The connection to lpd on the local machine failed. This usually 
means the printer server started at boot time has died or is hung. 
Check the local socket /dev/printer to be sure it still exists (if it does 
not exist, there is no lpd process running).


lpr: printer: printer queue is disabled
This means the queue was turned off with

	example% /usr/etc/lpc disable printer

to prevent lpr from putting files in the queue. This is normally 
done by the system manager when a printer is going to be down for 
a long time. The printer can be turned back on by a super-user with 
lpc.

If a connection to lpd on the local machine cannot be made lpr will 
say that the daemon cannot be started. Diagnostics may be printed 
in the daemon's log file regarding missing spool files by lpd


lprm

Name
lprm - remove jobs from the printer queue


Command Line
lprm [ -Pprinter ] [ - ] [ job # ... ] [ username ... ]


Description
lprm removes a job or jobs from a printer's spooling queue. Since 
the spool directory is protected from users, using lprm is normally 
the only method by which a user can remove a job.

Without any arguments, lprm deletes the job that is currently 
active, provided that the user who invoked lprm owns that job.

You can remove a specific job by supplying its job number as an 
argument, which you can obtain using lpq(1). For example:

example% lpq -Phost
host is ready and printing
Rank Owner Job Files Total Size
active wendy 385 standard input 35501 bytes
example% lprm -Phost 385

lprm reports the names of any files it removes, and is silent if 
there are no applicable jobs to remove.

lprm kills the active printer daemon, if necessary, before 
removing spooled jobs; it restarts the daemon when through.


Options
-Pprinter
Specifies the queue associated with a specific printer. Otherwise the 
value of the PRINTER variable in the environment is used. If this 
variable is unset, the queue for the default printer is used.

Removes all jobs owned by you. If invoked by the super-user, all 
jobs in the spool are removed. (Job ownership is determined by the 
user's login name and host name on the machine where the lpr 
command was invoked).


Diagnostics
lpr: printer: jobs queued, but cannot start daemon.
The connection to lpd on the local machine failed. This usually 
means the printer server started at boot time has died or is hung. If 
it is hung, the master lpd(8) daemon may have to be killed and a 
new one started.


net14


Name 
net14 is a utility that redirects serial output onto a TCP/IP network.


Command Line 
net14 -h <filename> <program-name> [program options]


Full Description
net14 is a utility to allow programs which use interrupt 14h to output 
serial information to output that information onto a TCP/IP 
network. Thus, you could use this utility to re-direct the output from 
MS-Kermit onto a TCP/IP network through an ethernet card, while 
still retaining the MS-Kermit user interface.


Usage
The net14 program acts as a shell in which you can execute another 
program. net14 first initializes the network and reads in the 
config.tel file, then transfers control to the program specified on 
the command line. For example, the following line starts net14, 
specifies a location for the config.tel file, and fires up MS-Kermit:

net14 -h c:\ncsa\config.tel kermit

To pass parameters to the program which net14 transfers control to, 
place them after the filename of the program.


Options
-h <filename>
Specifies the location of the config.tel file to read in the network 
options.


<program-name> 
The program which net14 executes after initializing the network. 
net14 searches for the program in the path specified in the MS-DOS 
PATH environment variable.


[program options] 
This program passes options to the program which net14 executes.


rsh


Name
rsh - remote shell


Command Line
rsh [ -l username ] [ -n ] hostname command

rsh hostname [ -l username ] [ -n ] command

hostname [ -l username ] [ -n ] command


Description
rsh connects to the specified hostname and executes the specified 
command. rsh copies its standard input to the remote command, 
the standard output of the remote command to its  standard output, 
and the standard error of the remote command to its standard 
error. Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the 
remote command; rsh normally terminates when the remote 
command does.

If you omit the command, instead of executing a single command, 
rsh logs you in on the remote host using rlogin(1C). Shell 
metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted on the local 
machine, while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on the 
remote machine.

Hostnames are given in the hosts database, which may be 
contained  in the /etc/hosts file, the Yellow Pages hosts database, 
the Internet domain name database, or some combination of the 
three. Each host has one official name (the first name in the 
database entry) and optionally one or more nicknames. Official 
hostnames or nicknames may be given as hostname.

If the name of the file from which rsh is executed is anything other 
than ``rsh,'' rsh takes this name as its hostname argument. This 
allows you to create a symbolic link to rsh in the name of a host 
which, when executed, will invoke a remote shell on that host. The 
/usr/hosts directory is provided to be populated with symbolic links 
in the names of commonly used hosts. By  including /usr/hosts in 
your shell's search path, you can run rsh by typing hostname to 
your shell.

Each remote machine may have a file named /etc/hosts.equiv that 
contains a list of trusted hostnames with which it shares 
usernames. Anyone with identical usernames on the local and 
remote machines may rsh from the machines listed in the remote 
machine's /etc/hosts file. Each user can set up a similar private 
equivalence list using the file .rhosts in their home directories. 
Each line in this file contains (at least) a hostname, a separating 
space, and a username. The entry permits the user named 
username who is logged into hostname to use rsh to access the 
remote machine as the remote user. If the name of the local host is 
not found in the /etc/hosts.equiv file on the remote machine, and 
the local username and hostname are not found in the remote 
user's .rhosts file, then the access is denied. The hostnames listed 
in the /etc/hosts.equiv and .rhosts files must be the official 
hostnames listed in the hosts database. You cannot use nicknames 
in either of these files. Unless the command argument is omitted, 
rsh will not prompt you for a password if the remote machine 
denies you access.


Options
-l  username
Uses the username as the remote username instead of your local 
username. Without this option, the remote username and your 
local username are identical.


-n
Redirects the input of rsh to /dev/null. Occasionally, you must use 
this option to avoid unfortunate interactions between rsh and the 
shell which invokes it. For example, if you are running rsh and 
invoke a rsh in the background without redirecting its input away 
from the terminal, it will block even if the remote command 
doesn't post any reads. The -n option prevents this situation.

Your entry in the file /etc/passwd on the remote system determines 
the type of remote shell (sh, rsh, or other) your local system will 
use.


setclock


Name
setclock sets the local clock to one on a network server.


Command Line
setclock -h <filename> hostname


Description
The utility, setclock, sets the PC's local clock from the network's 
clock server.


Options
-h <filename>  
Gives the location and the name of the config.tel file.


hostname
Gives the name of the host from which you'll get the time.
5.1	NCSA Telnet


File Transfer	5.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991


                                                                





5.1	NCSA Telnet

File Transfer	5.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991




	6/30/91




Chapter 5	File Transfer



Chapter Overview
File Transfer Terminology
File Transfer Guidelines
Full Path Specification:  Conversion of Forward 
Slashes
Simultaneous Activity 
Rules for Filenames Sent to the PC
File Transfer Reports
File Transfer Using FTP
Setting Up FTP
Using FTP
Invoking FTP on the Host Computer
Invoking FTP Using Alternate Methods
Using FTP Commands
File Transfer Using rcp
Setting Up rcp
Using rcp
Avoiding Use of NCSA Telnet's rcp Server
Using rcp Between the PC and UNIX
Using Wildcards

Chapter Overview

This chapter describes procedures for transferring files between a 
PC and a network host, using NCSA Telnet's two built-in file 
transfer servers: FTP and rcp. Guidelines and information are 
presented for file name conventions, path specification, and 
background file transfer.


File Transfer Terminology

This chapter uses the following terms:


ASCII file, text file
Humans can read an ascii or text file, and can edit the files using 
standard editors on the PC or host. When you transfer text files, 
their end-of-line markers are changed.


Binary, Graphics, or Image File
Humans can't read a binary, graphics, or image file. 
When transferred, binary files are not changed in any way 
(unlike text files).


Client/Server
The client is the system that requests services while the server is 
the system that provides or "serves" them. The client is not always 
your PC, despite appearances. When you use NCSA Telnet to 
connect to a host, your PC is the telnet client. When you request a 
file transfer from your PC, the transfer is actually initiated on the 
host, making the host the FTP client and your PC the FTP server. 
Thus, the PC is a telnet client and an FTP server at the same time. 


File Transfer
In a file transfer, the contents of a file are copied, and the copy is 
placed on another computer's disk drive.


File Transfer Guidelines

Full Path Specification: 
Conversion of Forward 
Slashes
If you do not specify a full pathname for either FTP or rcp, NCSA 
Telnet will transfer the files to the default directory. If you need to 
specify a different directory, type the full pathname as documented 
in the DOS manual. The full pathname may include the disk drive 
name, with a colon. For example:

D:\myfiles\graphics\image.dat

or

D:/myfiles/graphics/image.dat

You may use forward slashes (/) rather than backslashes (\), 
because NCSA Telnet automatically converts any forward slashes 
in UNIX pathnames to backslashes for compatibility with PC-DOS. 
Because backslashes are special characters in the UNIX shell and 
a special format is required to enter them, forward slashes are 
more convenient to use.

NOTE:  rcp is a Berkeley UNIX feature. Refer to the section, 
"Using rcp File Transfer," in this chapter for more information.


Simultaneous Activity 
With both FTP and rcp, file transfers are processed at the same 
time as other telnet sessions. Therefore, while a file transfer is in 
progress, you can perform other NCSA Telnet activities such as 
interacting with a telnet session, switching sessions, adding new 
sessions, or changing parameters. 

However, do not initiate another file transfer while one is already 
in progress. While an FTP request is being processed, a second 
FTP request will be ignored. Furthermore, if you try to start an rcp 
transfer while another transfer is already underway, both 
transfers may fail.

NOTE: Do not quit NCSA Telnet while a file transfer is in 
progress, because the file transfer may fail.


Rules for Filenames Sent to 
the PC
Whether you are using FTP or rcp to transfer files to or from a PC, 
check these rules for PC filenames:

•	A legal PC filename is eight characters or less, followed by an 
optional period and an up to three-character extension.

•	Upper and lower case are considered identical for filenames on 
PC disks.

•	Names of files which are transferred from the PC are given in 
all lower case.

•	A filename longer than eight characters is truncated.

•	If a period occurs in a filename, the next three characters are 
read as the extension, and any others are truncated. 

•	A filename should not contain "special characters" or spaces. 
If it does, the file may be lost or unreadable. Examples of special 
characters are the asterisk (*), the dollar sign ($), the pound 
sign (#), the hyphen (-), and control characters. 


File Transfer Reports
The FTP server produces several kinds of information for you to 
help keep tabs on FTP access to the local hard disk. You can view 
this information by pressing the ALT-Z keys (show console 
messages), as documented in Chapter 2, "Introduction to 
Managing Sessions." The following list describes the 
information which FTP provides.

•	Reports when a command connection is initiated, with the IP 
address or host name of the remote machine which initiated the 
connection

•	Reports the name of the user who logs in, if you use the USER 
command

•	Reports the file names which were transferred to or from local 
disk

•	Reports when the command connection ends

The rcp server also produces reports for the console screen.

•	Reports when an rcp transfer begins
•	Reports when the rcp transfer ends


File Transfer Using FTP

The FTP server in NCSA Telnet is the minimum standard FTP 
server, similar to that in 4.2 BSD UNIX. NCSA's FTP supports the 
following features:

•	Stream transfer in text format (ASCII) or binary format 
(IMAGE)

•	Change, create, or delete a directory

•	Print current directory

•	List files in current directory (with wildcard specifications)

•	Send and receive multiple files with one command, using 
wildcards
•	Delete file


Setting Up FTP
The host machine must support FTP file transfer. If you do not 
know whether it does, see your system administrator.

You must not have disabled the file transfer capability of NCSA 
Telnet. That is done with the Parameter menu (see Chapter 3, 
"More About Managing Sessions"), or in the configuration file 
(see Chapter 7, "Installation and Configuration"). If the file 
transfer capability has been switched off, when you attempt to start 
up FTP, you will get a message from the host to the effect that the 
computer is not responding. If you get such a message, check the 
file transfer mode on the Parameter menu to make sure that it is 
enabled.


Using FTP
Use FTP rather than rcp in either of the following situations.

1.	You are not thoroughly familiar with the host operating system. 
FTP is easier to use than rcp, and requires less familiarity with 
the host commands and directory structure.

2.	You are transferring PC text (ASCII) files to a host. FTP is a 
better choice than rcp, because FTP automatically converts the 
end-of-line characters in text files from CRLF, used by PC-DOS, 
to LF, used by UNIX machines.


Invoking FTP on the Host 
Computer
FTP is initiated by the host, so the FTP commands vary, 
depending on the host system. For full documentation of FTP and 
commands within FTP, you must refer to the manuals for the host 
computer. With UNIX systems, you can see online documentation 
by using the man ftp command. See Chapter 4, "Utility 
Programs," for more information.


The FTP Command
On most systems, the FTP command is entered at the prompt, with 
the name or IP address of the target machine. For example, if your 
PC is named "mymachine" and your IP address is 192.17.20.22, 
then you might enter:

% ftp mymachine

or

% ftp 192.17.20.22

which generates a response like this:

Connected to 192.17.20.22.
220 PC Resident FTP server, ready
Name (192.17.20.22:timk):
Most FTP clients will now prompt you for your username and 
password. If NCSA Telnet is configured for passwords (see 
Chapter 7, "Installation and Configuration"), then these are 
required. Otherwise, just press RETURN to bypass the prompts. If 
you are  not prompted for username and password, then assume 
that you are logged in and continue with your FTP commands.


Invoking FTP Using 
Alternate Methods
The most common procedure for starting FTP uses the shortcut 
keystroke, ALT-F. When you press ALT-F, NCSA Telnet types the 
FTP command described above, automatically including your 
PC's IP address and the RETURN to initiate the command. For 
convenience, you will probably prefer ALT-F to the other ways of 
entering the command. You may want to think of this as a 
keyboard macro that is pre-set with the FTP command and your IP 
address.

Another available macro is ALT-I which types your IP address for 
you. When entering any networking command, FTP for example, 
you can instantly produce your own network IP address with ALT-
I. The following sequence is equivalent to pressing ALT-F.

ftp
(SPACEBAR)
(ALT-I)
(RETURN)

Use whichever method of invoking FTP that works best for you. 
Your host computer may or may not accept FTP commands as 
described here, so you may have to try some variations to find the 
easiest method for your site. Your system administrator may be 
able to help.


Using FTP Commands
For most FTPs, after FTP has been invoked and passwords have 
been checked, you are prompted for individual FTP commands. 
These commands are also documented in the manuals for the host 
computer. Most of the FTP implementations have similar 
commands because they are modeled after the Berkeley UNIX 
version of FTP. Table 5.1 lists FTP commands that are common to 
most implementations.

Table 5.1	Common FTP 
Commands
Command		Action

ascii		Sets mode to ASCII transfer mode (default)

binary		Sets mode to binary (image) transfer mode

cd path		Sets a new default directory on PC

dir			Shows filenames in PC's default directory

get filename	Gets a file from PC and sends it to host

help			Shows online list of FTP commands

put filename	Sends a file from host to PC

pwd			Shows current PC directory name

quit			Exits FTP

remotehelp	Shows list of supported commands on FTP 
				server


ASCII, Binary
The default mode for FTP transfers is ASCII format. If you are 
transferring graphics or binary data files, change to binary mode 
before you use the put or get commands. Do this by entering the 
command binary. To reset the ASCII format after sending a 
binary file, enter the command ascii. Figure 5.1 shows an FTP 
transaction with an ASCII file. Figure 5.2 shows an FTP 
transaction with a binary file.


Default Directory
Unless you include a full pathname with the command, NCSA 
Telnet transfers the file to the default directory. As Table 5.1 
indicates, you can use FTP commands to identify the current 
directory (pwd), or change the current directory (cd).

The change directory command, which you type as cd, allows you 
to change the default disk drive in addition to the default directory. 
Just use PC standard disk notation, with forward slashes instead 
of backslashes, for example:

ftp> cd D:/files

The pwd command also returns disk information. After the 
previous example cd command, a pwd command returns:

D:\FILES


Transfer to the PC
Even though you seem to be initiating the transfer from the PC, the 
transaction operates from the host's side. The practical effect of 
this could make the commands seem intuitively "backwards." To 
transfer a file from the host to your PC, you use a put command. 
The form this command takes is:

put filename.ext

Figure 5.1 shows an example of a put command used with an 
actual file, named temp2. The boldface type represents user 
entries.


Figure 5.1	Put to the PC, ASCII 
File
newton_45% ftp -n 192.17.20.124
Connected to 192.17.20.124.
220 PC Resident FTP server, ready
ftp> put temp2
200 This space intentionally left blank <  >
150 Opening connection
226 Transfer complete
262145 bytes sent in 32.61 seconds (7.8 Kbytes/s)
ftp> quit
221 Goodbye
newton_46%



Transfer to the Host
A request to send a file from the PC to the host is called a get.

get filename.ext

Figure 5.2 shows a get operation, using a binary file named 
bridge.pic. Note that the file was in the directory named ibmg, so 
the cd command was used. Again, the boldface type represents user 
entries. If a text file were to be sent after this, the ASCII mode would 
have to be reset, using the FTP ascii command.

Figure 5.2 	Get from the PC, 
Binary File
newton_41% ftp -n 192.17.20.124
Connected to 192.17.20.124.
220 PC Resident FTP server, ready
ftp> bin
200 Type set to I, binary transfer mode
ftp> cd /ibmg
250 Chdir okay
ftp> get bridge.pic
200 This space intentionally left blank <  >
150 Opening connection
226 Transfer complete
262144 bytes received in 9.22 seconds (28 Kbytes/s)
ftp>
ftp> quit
221 Goodbye
newton_42%



FTP Status Indicator
After you have entered a put or get command, in the lower right 
hand corner of your screen you will see the filename and an 
indication of the number of bytes transferred (in the case of a put) 
or left to be transferred (in the case of a get). These numbers are 
updated every couple of seconds to help you keep track of the 
progress of the file transfer. After the command has completed, the 
filename goes away and the host usually prints a confirmation 
message, as seen in Figures 5.1 and 5.2.


mput, mget
On many telnet hosts, you can transfer multiple files sequentially 
with one command, either mput or mget, used with wildcard 
characters. (PC wildcard characters are ? for a single character 
and * for multiple characters.) For instance, to transfer the 
multiple files, teln.2, and teln.3, you could enter mget (or mput)†*


Bug with mget
If you transfer multiple binary files using a UNIX host, note that 
there is a bug in mget as implemented on some systems (especially 
4.2 BSD UNIX). When used in binary mode, mget adds a carriage 
return to the filenames as they are transferred. The files 
themselves are not affected. Use a UNIX utility to remove the 
carriage return from the filename. In ASCII mode, there is no 
problem.


File Transfer Using rcp

rcp is a Berkeley UNIX feature found in Sun UNIX and other 4.2 
BSD systems. The rcp program cannot do the end of line 
translation required for text files, so it is typically used for binary 
files only. UNIX rcp is designed for files copied UNIX-to-UNIX, 
but NCSA Telnet's rcp server supports transfer between a UNIX 
system and a PC.

NOTE: NCSA Telnet's rcp server does not support the recursive 
option (-r).


Setting Up rcp
To use rcp efficiently, you should be familiar with the UNIX host, 
including:

•	rcp command and options
•	directory structures used with rcp
•	the relationship between the UNIX shell and rcp wildcards

Details on these concepts are in the manuals for UNIX.

The internet (IP) number and machine name for each PC must be 
in the UNIX /etc/hosts file for every machine that is 
transferring files to and from your PC. If rcp does not recognize 
your PC's name, have your system administrator check or add that 
name in the UNIX machine's hosts file.


Using rcp
Use rcp for binary transfers to or from a UNIX system if you are 
familiar with the UNIX hosts, as described earlier.

There are two advantages of using rcp rather than FTP, on binary 
file transfers to or from a UNIX machine.

•	rcp handles wildcards more efficiently than FTP does.
•	rcp handles directories more easily than FTP does.


Avoiding Use of NCSA 
Telnet's rcp Server
Do not use the rcp server to transfer text files. Text files on the PC 
contain extra RETURN characters that NCSA Telnet's rcp server 
does not remove when transferring to UNIX.

NOTE: Do not initiate an rcp while a file transfer is already in 
process, or both transfers may fail.


Using rcp Between the PC 
and UNIX
The rcp program is fully documented in the manuals for UNIX 
hosts that support rcp transfers. Refer to those manuals to learn 
about rcp. As a reminder, the general syntax of the rcp command is 
given here. The target filename can be a directory name and 
wildcards are allowed, as noted in the next section.

% rcp mypc:filename unixfile		From PC to UNIX
% rcp unixfile mypc:filename		From UNIX to PC


Example: PC to UNIX
Following is a sample command to transfer a file named image 
from the PC named mypc to the current directory on the UNIX host 
(indicated by a dot or period). Note that the only blank spaces are 
after the command rcp, and between the filename and the target 
directory name (in this case, the dot for the current directory).

% rcp mypc:image .


Example: UNIX to PC
Following is a sample command to transfer a file named mygraf 
in the directory graphs from the UNIX host and put it in the 
directory grafs on the PC.

% rcp /graphs/mygraf mypc:/grafs


Using Wildcards
You can use wildcard characters with the rcp command to transfer 
multiple files between a PC client and a UNIX host. Wildcards that 
refer to UNIX files should be in the UNIX regular expression 
format. You must set wildcards that refer to PC files apart by using 
backslashes or quotes. See the following examples.


Example: Backslashes Used With Wildcards
One way of using PC wildcards with the rcp server is to use the 
backslash character (\) to keep the UNIX shell from interpreting 
the special characters. Suppose you want to transfer all files that 
have image at the beginning of the filename. Instead of the usual 
PC format, image*.*, you must precede each asterisk with a 
backslash. The full rcp command would look like this:

% rcp mypc:image\*.\* .

Without the backslashes, the UNIX shell would try to translate the 
asterisk on the host rather than on the PC.


Example: Quotes Used With Wildcards
The second way of using PC wildcards with the rcp server is to 
insert quotes around the entire argument. The command to 
transfer the files beginning with image would look like this:

% rcp "mypc:image*.*" .

6.1	NCSA Telnet


Tektronix 4014 Graphics	6.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991


                                                                





6.1	NCSA Telnet

Tektronix 4014 Graphics	6.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991



6/30/91




Chapter 6	Tektronix 4014 Graphics



Chapter Overview
Emulating a Tektronix 4014 Graphics Terminal
Initializing A Plotter
Setting the Configuration File 
Switching to and from Graphics Mode
Graphics Mode
Text Mode
Using the Graphics Menu (ALT-G)
Writing Graphics Files to Disk
Renaming Graphics Output Files
Setting the Viewing Region (Zoom Factor)
Redrawing Last Image
Plotting a Stored File

Chapter Overview

NCSA Telnet can emulate the Tektronix 4014 graphics terminal. 
This emulation includes text modes, Tek 4014 text sizing, zoom, 
pan, and multiple output devices. It supports CGA, EGA, Hercules, 
and the Number Nine Revolution 512 x 8 video systems, with the 
capability to write out images in PostScript, HPGL, or Tek 
drawing commands. The use of Tektronix graphics with NCSA 
Telnet depends upon host programs that can produce graphic 
images. When these programs run and produce Tektronix 4014 
graphics commands, NCSA Telnet automatically switches into 
graphics mode and does the drawing. 

This chapter describes steps in preparing to emulate the Tektronix 
4014 and how to use the Graphics menu.


Emulating a Tektronix 4014 Graphics Terminal

Initializing a Plotter
If you will be plotting directly to a plotter, the communications port 
for the plotter must be initialized before you run NCSA Telnet. To 
do so, use the DOS mode command. See the DOS manual and the 
plotter manual for examples.


Setting the Configuration 
File 
You'll use NCSA Telnet's configuration file to install the 
hardware and software configuration for Tektronix graphics. 
There are several settings you should insert in the configuration 
file, detailed in Chapter 7, "Installation and Configuration," 
before you use Tektronix emulation.

1.	Include tek=yes in the configuration file to enable graphics 
operation.

2.	Specify the video type with the video parameter in the 
configuration file. This is the only step required for selecting 
the video display because all of the screen drivers are included 
in NCSA Telnet.

3.	Install specific filenames to be used when writing each of the 
three different kinds of drawing commands. The hpfile 
parameter selects the file to receive HPGL commands, the 
psfile option selects the file to receive PostScript drawing 
commands, and the tekfile option selects the file to receive 
Tektronix drawing commands. If you do not make any settings 
here, the default files are hp.out, ps.out, and tek.out.

If you want HPGL output to go directly to a plotter that is connected 
to COM1 rather than to a disk file:

4.	Add hpfile=com1 to your configuration file. Note that you use 
COM1 without a colon.


Switching to and from Graphics Mode

Graphics Mode
When host programs produce Tektronix 4014 graphics commands,  
NCSA Telnet automatically switches into graphics mode and does 
the drawing.  The exact command sequence which causes the 
switch to graphics mode is the Tektronix clear screen command, 
ESC-FF, which is sometimes written as ESC-CTRL-L. A copy of 
your text screen is saved while you are in graphics mode.

The second way to enter graphics mode is to press CTRL-HOME. 
This key switches from text mode to graphics mode and clears the 
graphics screen. Host programs that produce Tektronix 4014 
graphics commands cause the screen to automatically go to 
graphics mode, so you will not usually need to use CTRL-HOME to 
switch to graphics manually.

The third method of starting graphics mode is to re-display the last 
graphics image. The re-display option is from the Graphics menu, 
described later in this chapter. At the completion of the re-display 
command, the screen remains in graphics mode.


Text Mode
To return to text mode, press HOME. When you are in graphics 
mode, HOME will set your display back to text mode and redraw 
the text screen which was visible before the graphics mode began. 
No host command exists which automatically returns to text mode. 
When you are in text mode, HOME has a different function. 

Using the Graphics Menu (ALT-G)

You display the Graphics menu by pressing ALT-G. Figure 6.1 
shows the Graphics menu, as it appears with the default filenames. 
You can change the fields in bold.

Figure 6.1	Graphics Menu
ALT-G                           Graphics menu
<            Press the appropriate function key or ESC to 
resume        >

   F1 - Write postscript to a file called: ps.out
   F2 - Change postscript output file name

   F3 - Write HPGL code to a file called: hp.out
   F4 - Change HPGL output file name

   F5 - Write Tektronix 4014 codes to a file called: tek.out
   F6 - Change Tektronix output file name

        View region is currently: 0,0,4095,3119
   F7 - Set a new view region (Zoom, Pan)
   RETURN - draw picture on screen in current zoom factor

   Enter choice:


From this menu, you press the appropriate function key, or 
RETURN to redraw the most recently displayed graphics picture.


Writing Graphics Files to 
Disk
To write out graphics images, use the Graphics menu. First, you 
should display the image on the screen using host software that 
generates Tektronix images. NCSA Telnet always keeps the last 
graphic image in memory. Select one of the options which writes 
this image to disk. The program writes images using the current 
view region. 

If you select Tektronix 4014 format, NCSA Telnet writes the image 
directly to disk and then returns you to your current session. After 
selecting the HPGL or the PostScript option from the Graphics 
menu, you are returned to your session while the file is written to 
disk in the background. After this image has been completely 
copied from memory to disk, a message on the console screen tells 
you that the process has completed.


Renaming Graphics Output 
Files
If you did not set up alternate files to use in the configuration file 
and you do not want to use the default filenames hp.out, ps.out, or 
tek.out, you can change the names before or after writing the file. 
Use the Graphics menu options to change one of the current file 
names before writing the image to disk. If you want a name 
changed after writing out the file, use ALT-E to escape to DOS, then 
use the DOS rename command. Use exit to leave DOS and return 
to NCSA Telnet.

A special feature allows you to append the current image to an 
existing disk file instead of overwriting. Enter any of the three file 
names as you would normally, adding a plus (+) to the beginning 
of the name.  NCSA Telnet takes the plus (+) to indicate that you 
want to open that file for "append", adding another image to the 
file. A filename which does not begin with a plus (+), causes NCSA 
Telnet to overwrite the file when saving each image.


Setting the Viewing Region 
(Zoom Factor)
Another Graphics menu choice lets you set the viewing region, or 
zoom factor. Any portion of the image can be enlarged and made to 
fill the screen. Tektronix drawing commands are resolved to a 
4096 x 3120 pixel resolution. Values start with 0,0 in the lower left, 
and go to 4095, 3119 in the upper right. 

The default view region for NCSA Telnet is (0, 0, 4095, 3119), which 
is the full image. Figure 6.1 has examples of possible viewing 
regions that you can use.

Figure 6.2	Sample Viewing 
Regions
                                              


Redrawing Last Image
Use the Graphics menu option, Redraw Last Image, is used when 
you want to review the image that is currently in memory. This 
option always zooms and enlarges the image according to the view 
region that is visible. The selected view region always fills the 
screen so you can see more detail.

This command leaves you in graphics mode, so press HOME if you 
want to return to text mode.


Plotting a Stored File

If you have used the Graphics menu to store a file of HPGL drawing 
commands, the DOS copy command can send those commands to 
an attached plotter (which is connected to COM1 in this example).

C:> copy filename.out com1 

	


Installation and Configuration	7.1




June 1991


                                                                





7.1	NCSA Telnet

Installation and Configuration	7.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991

		6/30/91




Chapter 7	Installation and Configuration



Chapter Overview
Installing the Distribution Files
Sample Configuration
Required Configuration Information
The TELNET.BAT File
Command Line Options
The Configuration File
Overview
Syntax for Entries
PC Information Entries
Host-Specific Parameters
Convertion of UNIX /etc/hosts Files
Hardware Options
Combined Ethernet Drivers
Performance Tuning
RARP for Dynamic IP Address Assignment
BOOTP for Dynamic IP Address Assignment
Interrupts
Domain Name Lookup
FTP Password Protection
Compatibility Notes
Ping
VT102
FTP
Terminate and Stay Resident (TSR) Programs
NCSA Telnet
Limitations

Chapter Overview

This chapter contains information for system administrators 
(and other experienced users) to use in installing and customizing 
a telnet system. It describes how to install NCSA Telnet, change 
the configuration file, the domain name lookup, how to protect FTP 
transfers with passwords, and discusses compatibility issues.


Installing the Distribution Files

Three files are required for the standard configuration of NCSA 
Telnet. The combination of these with the use of the DOS path 
command allows you to call up NCSA Telnet from any 
subdirectory on your PC. 


TELNET.BAT
This batch file begins the execution of NCSA Telnet. It must be in a 
directory that is in your DOS path. It contains the locations of the 
TELBIN.EXE and CONFIG.TEL files. You must update this batch 
file (with any standard editor) when you change the location of 
TELBIN.EXE or CONFIG.TEL.


TELBIN.EXE
This file is the program itself. You can place it in any directory. 
The TELNET.BAT file calls up this program when it runs.


CONFIG.TEL
Config.tel is the configuration file that contains your PC's IP 
address, the kind of Ethernet hardware that you are using, and 
other information about your network. Gateways, nameservers, 
and setup information are stored here. The TELNET.BAT file 
tells TELBIN.EXE where it can find this file on your disk.


Sample Configuration
Suppose you want to install NCSA Telnet in a directory called 
\ncsa on your hard disk drive, drive C. Copy the TELBIN.EXE 
and CONFIG.TEL files to C:\ncsa. Suppose also that you have a 
particular directory C:\bat, which you use to store commonly 
used batch files. Your DOS path (see DOS manual) contains an 
entry for C:\bat already. Copy the TELNET.BAT file into 
C:\bat. You must now edit the TELNET.BAT file to update the 
locations of the TELBIN.EXE and CONFIG.TEL files. When 
finished, it should look something like this:

if .%1 == . goto defh
c:\ncsa\telbin -h c:\ncsa\config.tel %1 %2 %3 %4 %5
goto exith
:defh
c:\ncsa\telbin -h c:\ncsa\config.tel ncsab
:exith


This batch file calls up TELBIN.EXE at a known location and 
passes it the -h parameter, indicating the location of the 
CONFIG.TEL file. In addition to the file locations, the fifth line 
indicates which machine NCSA Telnet should connect to by 
default.


Required Configuration 
Information
To set up a new configuration file, you will need a standard text 
editor. The template provided with NCSA Telnet is set up to reflect 
commonly used default values. It may be worth the time to go 
through the list of configuration options in this chapter and fine-
tune your configuration to match your local computing situation 
more closely. In the meantime, you must install the following 
fields in the configuration file for NCSA Telnet to operate.

Field	Meaning

myip=192.17.20.10	You must provide a unique IP address 
	for each machine on your network. IP 
	addresses must be installed in the 
	configuration file of each computer.

netmask=255.255.255.0	This field is the subnet mask, (in decimal),  
	and is required if you are using subnets on 
	your network. 

hardware=3C501	NCSA Telnet can support several 
	different brands of Ethernet adapters. 
	Each brand has its own unique 
	identifier which you must set for the 
	hardware parameter. See the 
	hardware section in this chapter for a 
	complete list of settings. Most brands 
	also require address and ioaddr to be 
	set.

video=ega	If you wish to use the Tektronix 
	graphics options, you must provide the 
	correct screen type. Incorrectly 
	installed, this option can crash NCSA Telnet. 
	The  alternative is to install the tek=no 
	option.  Legal types are cga, ega, 
	hercules, no9, mono, ega43, vga50.

gateway=1	If you are going to be using gateways 
	to reach other networks, at least one 
	machine must be designated as a 
	gateway, using this gateway option 
	after the name field. The entry for each 
	gateway must include a hostip  field, 
	according to the configuration file 
	directions in this chapter.


The TELNET.BAT File
The actual .exe file that the PC executes is not named telnet.exe. A 
batch file called TELNET.BAT loads the software in several steps 
that are normally transparent to you. Here is a typical entry in 
TELNET.BAT: 

C:>\apps\telbin -h c:\apps\config.tel %1 %2 %3 %4


The TELNET.BAT file, which must be in the DOS path, specifies 
completely where the program is and where the configuration file 
is found. If you do not explicitly specify a machine name, the 
system connects to a previously assigned default machine name.


Command Line Options
NCSA Telnet goes through two stages as you load it. The program 
first finds the TELNET.BAT. (This file must be in the DOS path so 
it can be found first.) Secondly, in the batch file, the location of the 
TELBIN.EXE file and any command line defaults are used to call 
up the program. We've included many command line arguments 
for you in the batch file, TELNET.BAT; you can add others when 
you run the telnet batch file. This following command gives a full 
description of those options. The syntax for loading NCSA Telnet 
with options is:

C:\ > telnet [options] [machine1 machine2 ...]

The options must precede the list of machine names on the 
command line. You may order the options in any way, but you 
must include the parameters for each option. Include one space 
between the options and between each option and the parameter for 
that option. The options are:

Option		Function

?	Shows command line options. This option causes 
	NCSA Telnet to display a summary version 
	of the command line options instead of 
	initiating the program. 

-c colorcode	Sets the default color for screens. The 
	colorcode string is six digits long and follows the 
	coding scheme documented later in this chapter.

-h filename	Specifies where to find the configuration file. 
	Normally, this option is included in TELNET.BAT, 
	and you never have to use it explicitly. If you do 
	not specify the configuration file there or on the 
	command line, there must be a file named 
	CONFIG.TEL in the default directory, or you must 
	set an environment variable named CONFIG.TEL 
	to your configuration file. If a suitable 
	configuration file cannot be found according to 
	these rules, NCSA Telnet terminates. 

	For example, if you name your configuration file 
	"TELNET.CFG", and the file resided in the 
	directory C:APPS, you would put the following 
	command in your AUTO.EXEC.BAT file:

	"set CONFIG.TEL=C:\APPS\TELNET.CFG"

	NOTE: filename should include a 
	pathname. For example, 

	C:\bat\config.tel

	NCSA Telnet uses the filename specified for the -h 
	parameter first. If that filename isn't available, it 
	first looks in an environment variable, then the 
	current directory, then all the directories specified 
	by the "PATH" environment variable in order to 
	find the filename.

-s	Enters server mode. NCSA Telnet waits for 
	external FTP and rcp requests. It allows you to 
	leave your PC and access files there from a remote 
	machine. 

-t	Disables direct writes to the screen. Without 
	the -t option, NCSA Telnet defaults to 
	writing directly to screen memory. This option 
	greatly enhances the screen speed, but makes 
	NCSA Telnet incompatible with Topview, 
	Microsoft Windows, and other windowing 
	systems. To make NCSA Telnet completely 
	compatible with BIOS-level programs, use the -t 
	option. You can install this option permanently 
	in the TELNET.BAT file or the CONFIG.TEL file 
	(bios option).


The Configuration File

Overview
The configuration file contains information on local operating 
parameters (such as which type of graphics screen your PC has, 
and your IP number), plus a list of commonly accessed hosts and 
optional network tuning parameters for each of those hosts.

The configuration file is accessed once when the program is 
initiated and is not used again. The program reads all of the 
machine names into memory, so it may save memory to limit the 
number of computers you specify in the file. 

The configuration file is typically named CONFIG.TEL. If this 
file is in the default directory, it will be found automatically, but 
the use of the -h flag in the TELNET.BAT file is recommended. 
Syntax for Entries
The configuration file is a list of keywords and values for those 
keywords. The one overall requirement for the entries in the file is 
that they alternate, keyword then value, keyword then value, and 
so on. There are many different formats possible using any of the 
allowable delimiters. The delimiters are the colon (:), semicolon 
(;), equal sign (=), and any of the whitespace characters. To 
include delimiters in a value field, enclose the field in double 
quotes. Quotes cannot be a part of the actual data field. Wherever a 
pound sign (#) is found, everything from there to the end of line is 
a comment. Though you can use multiple formats in the same file, 
you will probably want to find and keep a consistent format. For 
example, each of the entries in Figure 7.1 specify the same 
information. 

Note that Figure 7.1.c is not a recommended format, but is 
included to show how strange an entry may look.

Figure 7.1.aDisplaying the 
Same Information 
in Different Entry 
Formats
	name=nic      # comment field to end of line ->
	host=sri-nic.arpa
	hostip=10.0.0.51
	scrollback=300
	contime=60


Figure 7.1.b
name=nic; host=sri-nic.arpa; hostip="10.0.0.51"; 
scrollback=300; contime=60


Figure 7.1.c
name     
nic
host sri-nic.arpa : hostip=10.0.0.51; scrollback=300; 
contime:60


PC Information Entries
The first entries in the configuration file are the PC environment 
entries. They specify what types of hardware are to be used, the 
names of graphics output files, and the network configuration 
information. Following is a list of these entries:

Entry	Meaning

address=d000	entered as four hex digits, address=d000, 
is the segment address of the Ethernet 
board's shared memory. The address only 
applies to boards that have jumpers or 
registers which can be used to set the 
shared memory address. After setting the 
board's jumpers to a particular value, use 
the address parameter to configure NCSA 
Telnet with the same setting. d000 (hex) is 
a common address to use and it rarely 
conflicts with other boards.

Entry	Meaning

arptime=3	specifies how long to try to reach a host 
on the local wire, in ticks, where 18.2 ticks 
is equivalent to one second. A value of 20 
works fine for the network at NCSA, but 
larger values may be needed for hosts 
that are slow to respond. Smaller values 
are more convenient to use.

autoscroll=yes	specifies whether the screen continues to 
scroll in scrollback mode when the cursor 
reaches the top of the screen or not. (It 
will only scroll up one line if this option is 
off.) Default is yes.

beep=yes	specifies whether the musical note symbol 
will appear in a session's indicator box 
when NCSA Telnet receives a "beep" 
character. This command is useful for 
alert conditions.

bios=no	indicates NCSA Telnet has two screen-
writing modes. One is direct-to-screen 
(bios=no) which is considerably faster on 
most machines. The other uses BIOS 
(bios=yes) and follows the IBM BIOS 
conventions at all times. BIOS mode 
makes NCSA Telnet compatible with 
popular windowing systems and can 
reduce the amount of flicker and snow on 
the screens of IBM CGA-equipped 
systems.

broadcast=255.255.	specifies the network address to use 
255.255	for broadcast messages.

capfile=	specifies a name for the capture file. For 
example,

		capfile ="c:\temp\myfile"

		When you capture to disk, all data is 
appended to this file. If no name is 
included in the configuration file, "capfile" 
is used by default.

capfile=prn	specifies that the printer device (PRN) 
should be used for the capture file.

clock=on	specifies that the clock should be 
displayed on the status line.  Default is 
clock=on.

concolor=431070 	specifies the colors used in the console 
window.

Entry	Meaning

cursorbottom=8	specifies the bottom of the cursor block 
using a number from 0 to 15.

cursortop=11	specifies the top of the cursor block using 
a number from 0 to 15.

domain="ncsa.uiuc.edu"	affects hostname lookups which are sent 
to the domain nameserver. All names 
which do not contain a period have the 
default domain appended before the 
nameserver request goes out. If the 
hostname you type contains a period, 
then the name is unmodified before NCSA 
Telnet sends it to the nameserver. There is 
no "ring-down" or multiple lookup feature 
to try more than one form of the name.

domainretry=4	specifies number of times to query 
domain nameserver(s). Each time a retry 
is sent, the timeout value (above) is 
doubled. Each time a retry occurs, NCSA 
Telnet tries the next nameserver, 
wrapping around to the first nameserver 
when there are no more.

domaintime=20	specifies time in ticks to wait between the 
first domain lookup and the second. If you 
only have one nameserver, then this is the 
same as a simple timeout. If you want to 
rotate nameservers quickly because the 
first one may be down, set this to a 
smaller number. To force a larger number 
of retries, set this to a smaller number. To 
wait longer for a domain response, 
increase this value.

ftp=yes	enables FTP serving by default. Access to 
your PC can be controlled by the FTP 
password file. To disable FTP serving 
completely, change this line to ftp=no.

hardware=3C501	specifies that NCSA Telnet can support 
several different brands of Ethernet 
adapters. Each brand has its own unique 
identifier which must be set for the 
hardware parameter. See the hardware 
section in this chapter for a complete list 
of settings.

hpfile=COM1	sends HPGL plotter codes directly to the 
plotter, as long as a HP plotter hooked up 
to your PC. Use the mode command to 
preconfigure the serial port first.

hpfile=hp.out	dumps Tektronix graphics to a file in 
several formats from the Graphics menu. 
When you write out HPGL (HP plotter) 
codes, this file name is used. For example,

		hpfile="c:\hpgrafs\hp.out"

		The default is hp.out in the current 
directory.

interrupt=3	specifies several choices for interrupt 
vector on the Ethernet board. NCSA 
Telnet defaults to IRQ3, but can be set to 
use different interrupts by indicating the 
interrupt number here. Match this 
number with the interrupt setting from 
your Ethernet board.

ioaddr=360	specifies the I/O base address of the 
Ethernet board in hex. Some Ethernet 
boards have selectable I/O addresses. 
These generally range from 200 to 400 
(hex) and must be entered as two, three, 
or four digits.

keyfile=filename	specifies an additional keyboard mapping 
file to provide move key definitions. This 
file over-rides the definitions in the 
telnet.key file.

myip=BOOTP	indicates that this entry is a special form 
of the myip entry. Setting myip to 
BOOTP will cause NCSA Telnet to query 
a BOOTP server to get its IP address.


myip=RARP	indicates that this entry is a special form 
of the myip entry. Setting myip to RARP 
will cause NCSA Telnet to query a RARP 
server to get its IP address. See the section 
on RARP in this chapter.

myip=10.0.0.51	specifies the IP address to use for the PC. 
This number must contain all four parts 
of the IP address. This field is required.

myname="hawkind.
ncsa.uiuc.edu"	specifies the network name used to 
identify the PC on the network.

netmask=255.255.255.0	specifies the subnet mask for your local 
network. It is optional for networks 
without subnets.

outputfile=filename	specifies that this entry is the same as 
keyfile option, except it specifies the 
output mapping file to over-ride the 
default telnet.out mappings.

Entry	Meaning

passfile=	specifies the file in which FTP usernames 
and passwords can be found. For 
example,

		passfile="c:\bat\ftppass"

		No default name exists for this file. If the 
file is specified, then FTP will require a 
username and password for all attempted 
FTP connections. If the file is not 
specified, then there is no password 
checking for FTP. Use the program 
TELPASS.EXE to encrypt new 
passwords. See the FTP Password 
Protection section later in this chapter.

psfile=ps.out	prints PostScript commands to several 
types of available laser printers. NCSA 
Telnet's PostScript output has been tested 
on the Apple (Sun) LaserWriter, which is 
connected to Sun workstations. The 
default filename is ps.out in the current 
directory.

rcp=yes	specifies that rcp serving is enabled by 
default. To disable rcp serving, change 
this line to rcp=no.

tek=yes	specifies there is no overhead to unused 
Tektronix graphics emulation. However, 
you may wish to disable graphics 
support. tek=no will disable Tektronix 
graphics emulation.

tekfile=tek.out	specifies the filename to use when you 
write Tektronix codes to disk. The default 
name is tek.out.Tektronix 4014 graphics 
commands are a very compact way to 
store a Tektronix graphics image. 

video=ega	specifies Tektronix 4014 graphics 
emulation is included in NCSA Telnet for 
a variety of video devices. Supported are: 
hercules (Hercules monochrome 
graphics), cga (IBM and compatibles 
original Color Graphics Adapter), ega 
(IBM Enhanced Graphics Adapter and 
compatibles), ega 43 (ega 43 - line mode), 
vga 50 (vga 50 - line mode) and no9 
(Number Nine Computer's Revolution 
512 x 8 board).

windowgoaway=yes	specifies that a session doesn't wait for a 
keypress after it has been closed. This 
defaults to windowgoaway=no.

Entry	Meaning

wire=thin	specifies which type of ethernet cable to 
use on the ethernet board. Options are 
thin and thick. Use this command only for 
3Com3C503 ethernet cards.


Host-Specific Parameters
Following the PC configuration options, you may specify zero or 
more hosts, and host-specific information for each host. By 
making the host entries in the configuration file, you can specify 
color, backspace, scrollback, connection timeout, and several 
tuning parameters for each host. You may want to have more than 
one session name associated with a single computer, such as 
purple cray and red cray with different screen colors to fit your 
mood of the day.

Typically, the first host listed will be name=default, which stores 
the default values for the other hosts. Any keyword listed under 
later hosts will override the default setting for that host session. 

NOTE: The keyword name is special because it separates entries.

The parameters following name up to the next keyword name are all 
associated with the session name. The parameters are installed 
whenever a connection is opened with that session name.

Entry	Meaning

copyfrom=nic	copies all unspecified parameters from a 
previous session name. Note that the 
session name which you want to 
reference with copyfrom must appear 
before the session name that uses a 
copyfrom directive. Parameters that are 
specified for a session name along with a 
copyfrom directive override that 
copyfrom directive.

clearsave=yes	updates scrollback when the screen is 
cleared. When clearing the screen, all of 
the visible lines are saved into the 
scrollback region. If you prefer not to 
have the text saved when the screen 
clears, set clearsave=no. In the case of 
host programs which clear the screen one 
line at a time, the lines are never saved 
into the scrollback region.

contime=10	gives the connection timeout in seconds. 
When you are making a connection 
attempt, after this amount of time has 
elapsed NCSA Telnet gives up on opening 
the connection and deletes the window. 
For congested or slow networks, this 
value should be made larger. 
Entry	Meaning

crmap=4.3BSDCRNUL	specifies a special compatibility option for 
4.3 BSD UNIX. Now, a UNIX bug fix to 
take care of the problem, but some hosts 
may still want crnul to be used for end-of-
line. The default is crmap=crlf, which 
sends CRLF when you press RETURN. 
In line mode, CRLF is always used.

duplex=half	applies only to hosts that negotiate non-
echoing mode and does not expect local 
line editing. All character keys are sent 
and echoed to the screen immediately. 
This parameter has no effect in echo 
mode.

erase=delete	sets the backspace translation for this 
host. Some hosts prefer the backspace key 
to be DELETE and some prefer the 
backspace key to be BACKSPACE. Set 
this value erase=delete or 
erase=backspace.

gateway=1	specifies the gateway precedence for this 
host. To reach hosts not connected to your 
local network, you must have at least one 
gateway entry. The hostip keyword must 
be present for this host. Gateway 
numbers must start at 1 and increase by 
ones. Gateway 1 has the highest 
precedence, but the first gateway to 
respond to an ARP will be used. ICMP 
redirects can affect how gateways are 
used, but not permanently.

host=sri-nic.arpa	specifies the hostname or alternate name. 
If you want to associate both a session 
name and a hostname with a particular 
set of parameters, you may include both. 
Note that the name parameter is required, 
while the host parameter is optional. The 
rule of thumb is: When you have only a 
hostname, insert it as name=hostname. If 
you have both a session name and a 
hostname, enter both name=sessionname  
and host=hostname. When you want to 
open a new connection, either hostname 
or sessionname works.

hostip=10.0.0.51	gives the IP address of the host. If this is 
not present, the domain nameserver must 
be queried to get the IP number of the 
host. For efficiency, include the IP 
addresses of all commonly accessed hosts. 
IP addresses of gateways and 
nameservers must be in the configuration 
file. 

maxseg=512	gives a byte count (1-1024) of the largest 
TCP segment that can be received. This 
value can control the size of packets that 
are sent over the connection. Reducing 
this value can eliminate IP fragmentation 
that we cannot reassemble. maxseg=512 
should force the sending host to never 
fragment.

mtu=512	specifies a byte count (1-1024) of the 
largest amount of data to put in the 
packets that are sent. If you are sending to 
the ARPANET you should use mtu=512. If 
you are sending to local hosts, you should 
use mtu=1024.

name=nic	specifies the name that you want to 
appear on the bottom line of the screen 
when the connection opens. It is the 
primary name associated with a list of 
parameters. It is common to have more 
than one session name for a host, each 
with different parameters, perhaps with 
different colors or different amounts of 
scrollback. This parameter is required 
because it separates entries.

nameserver=1	specifies the nameserver precedence for 
this host. NCSA Telnet uses UDP to query 
domain nameservers for machinenames 
that are not in the configuration file. Each 
machine that is to be used as a 
nameserver must have this keyword 
listed. The hostip keyword must be 
present for this host. Nameserver 1 has 
the highest precedence. Nameserver 
numbers must start at 1 and increase by 
ones.

nfcolor=white	specifies a normal, foreground

nbcolor=black	specifies a normal, background

rfcolor=black	specifies a reverse, foreground

rbcolor=white	specifies a reverse, background

ufcolor=blue	specifies a underline, foreground

ubcolor=black	specifies a underline, background

		You can use these new color options 
instead of the more complicated color 
code from previous versions. For each 
value, specify a string from the following 
list of colors available on IBM-PC class 
machines with color displays:

		Also for machines with EGA or better 
graphics adapters, the following colors 
are available:

		BLACK
		BLUE
		GREEN
		CYAN
		RED
		MAGENTA
		YELLOW
		WHITE

		The colors are in all caps, and for the 
foreground colors they are the 
highlighted version of the lowercase 
colors. For background colors, they make 
the foreground blink.

		The foreground and background colors 
are combined to create the text 
appearance on the screen. You may wish 
to experiment with the Parameter menu 
(Chapter 3), which interactively allows 
you to select a color scheme. The previous 
version's color= entries are still supported.

retrans=7	gives the initial retransmit timeout in 
18ths of a second. Increasing the value of 
this parameter may help in reducing the 
initial burst of retries that is typical of 
connections with high round-trip times.

rwin=512	gives a byte count (1-4096) of the largest 
size of the TCP window to advertise to 
other hosts. Unfortunately, some 
hardware and networks, the 3COM 
3C501 Etherlink for example, cannot 
handle receiving back-to-back packets. 
This situation requires us to limit the TCP 
receive window that we advertise to other 
hosts. For communicating to slower hosts, 
or when using the other brands of 
Ethernet boards, a larger window (4096) 
may work better.

scrollback=100	specifies the number of lines of scrollback 
for this session. Be aware that scrollback 
occupies at least 86 bytes per line saved. 
There can be a different number of lines 
of scrollback for each session. Plan your 
use of scrollback wisely unless you have 
memory to spare.


Converting UNIX /etc/hosts 
Files
Included with the NCSA Telnet distribution is an awk script called 
newh. Used with the following command under 4.X BSD UNIX, it 
will convert the /etc/hosts file format into a format compatible 
with NCSA Telnet's configuration file. Note that domain name 
lookup should make this operation obsolete, or apply to only a small 
subset of your /etc/hosts file.

% awk  -f newh /etc/hosts >config.temp
After creating this new file, prepend the PC-specific information 
and download the file to the PC.


Hardware Options

Combined Ethernet Drivers
Only one distribution program for NCSA Telnet Version 2.3 
exists. All of the Ethernet and video device drivers are combined 
into one executable program. You must use the hardware entry in 
the configuration file to inform NCSA Telnet which Ethernet board 
you have installed. Choose from the list of supported Ethernet 
boards in Table 7.1; the value to use is case insensitive. The 
requirements for interrupt, address, and ioaddr entries in the 
configuration file are listed.


Table 7.1	Ethernet Boards 
Supported by NCSA 
Telnet
Value	Ethernet Board	Requires          
For PC bus

3C501	3COM 3C501 Etherlink	interrupt,ioaddr

3c503	3COM3C503	interrupt, address, 
			ioaddr, wire

3c505	3COM 3C505	interrupt, address, 
			ioaddr

atalk	PCAppletalk Card	(software) 	
			interrupt,
			address, ioaddr

bicc	BICC 411x Ethernet Cards	interrupt, address, 
		ioaddr

decnet	DEC Decnet Protocol	interrupt, address, 
			ioaddr

NI5210	MICOM NI5210 	interrupt, address, 
		ioaddr

packet	Any packet driver	interrupt
**also for 
 PS/2 MCA Bus

PCNIC	Ungermann-Bass PC-NIC	address,ioaddr
	or IBM Baseband adapter

starlan	AT&T Starlan IO Card	address, oiaddr

WD8003	Western Digital WD8003 	address,ioaddr

Table 7.1	Ethernet Boards 
Supported by NCSA 
Telnet (continued)
Value	Ethernet Board	Requires          
WD8003e	Western Digital WD80033e	address,ioaddr

For PS/2 MCA bus

NICps2	Ungermann-Bass NICps/2 	address

3C523	3COM 3C523 Etherlink/MC	address,ioaddr

WD8003a	Western Digital WD8003a	address, ioaddr


Performance Tuning
The values of maxseg, mtu and rwin in the configuration file must 
be set correctly to get maximum data transfer throughput between 
machines. Some rules of thumb to use when setting these values 
include the following:

•	The maximum reasonable values for these parameters are:
	rwin=4096
	mtu=1024
	maxseg=1024

•	The best setting for local network use, with a high performance 
Ethernet board is:
	rwin=4096
	mtu=1024
	maxseg=1024

•	The best setting for ARPANET use, or any situation with a lot of 
unknown gateways, but with a high performance Ethernet board 
is:
	rwin=4096
	mtu=512
	maxseg=512

•	The setting required for the 3COM 3C501, and any other 
troublesome network situation, also the most conservative 
setting, is:
	rwin=512
	mtu=512
	maxseg=512

rwin specifies what the other computer is allowed to send you at any 
one time, so it depends mostly upon your local Ethernet board. If the 
board can handle it, always set rwin=4096. maxseg is used to 
avoid fragmentation. If you get fragmented packets, lower the 
value of maxseg for that host until fragmentation stops occurring.


RARP for Dynamic IP 
Address Assignment
When the following special form of the myip entry is used, 
myip=RARP, NCSA Telnet looks up your local machine's IP address 
with a broadcast request to the network. The "Reverse Address 
Resolution Protocol" is used to attempt to translate the local 
machine's assigned 48-bit Ethernet address to a corresponding IP 
address. From our tests with the RARP server from Sun 
Microsystems' SunOS 3.X, the RARP lookup takes about 3 seconds. 
You must install the 48-bit Ethernet address from each PC in the 
RARP hosts' tables before RARP will work. The value of arptime, 
in seconds, multiplied by three, is used for a timeout value. 

NOTE: Sun's RARP lookup will not work if you have a double-zero 
in your Ethernet address. Other leading zeros can be dropped as 
well. Use a single zero, i.e. 8:0:20:1:5a:90, instead of 
08:00:20:01:5a:90.


BOOTP for Dynamic IP 
Address Assignment
The Bootp process, myip=RARP, closely resembles the RARP process. 
For instance, the former performs the same function as RARP by 
getting an IP number from a Bootp server which has the PC's 
Ethernet address registered in the Bootp Host table. Bootp and 
RARP time-out procedures are also the same.


Appletalk Hardware
Using an Appletalk network involves some special 
considerations. First, you must load the Appletalk driver into 
memory. Version 1.0 of the "ATALK.EXE" driver was used in the 
development of NCSA Telnet. 

The second consideration involves the "interrupt=" line. The 
"interrupt=" line in your CONFIG.TEL line refers to the 
software interrupt the Appletalk driver is using, not the hardware 
interrupt the card is set to. For example, if your Appletalk card is 
set to IRG2, you would not set the "interrupt=" line to "2". 
Instead, the value should be set to the software interrupt, usually 
"interrupt=60" or "interrupt=5C".

Static IP addressing does not work at the current time in NCSA 
Telnet 2.3 using the Appletalk driver. Therefore, NCSA Telnet 
ignores any IP address you set in your CONFIG.TEL file , and 
assigns an IP address to your PC by the Appletalk gateway.

There has been no success in getting the Appletalk packet driver to 
work with NCSA Telnet. In addition, NCSA Telnet has not been 
tested with Appletalk cards for MicroChannel machines, such as 
IBM's PS/2 line.


Interrupts
When you configure the 3COM hardware, an important option is 
the choice of interrupt request number (level). 3COM boards arrive 
set for IRQ3, which corresponds to the PC-DOS definition of the 
COM2 communications port. If you have a port configured as 
COM2, you cannot set your Ethernet board to IRQ3. Another 
common value to use is IRQ5, which is the same interrupt that DOS 
uses for LPT2. Make sure that your PC hardware configuration 
does not conflict in any way.


Interrupt Conflicts
The most common hardware problem is interrupt conflicts. PCs 
have a limited number of interrupts, and you cannot have two 
devices which expect to use the same interrupt. PC Ethernet boards 
almost always consume an interrupt, even though we do not use 
interrupts for all Ethernet boards. Interrupts are also used by COM 
ports and LPT ports in your machine. You must check for 
conflicts.


Intermittant Interrupts
Interrupt conflicts don't always show up right away. They are 
software controlled. If you do not activate the interrupt on your 
COM2 port, it may not conflict with a 3C501 board on IRQ3 until 
next week when you try to use a modem terminal emulator and 
then switch to NCSA Telnet. NCSA Telnet might work fine until 
you try to FTP to your hard disk; then disaster strikes.


Interrupts on Hard Disks
Hard disks use interrupts too. We have traced two serious hard 
disk problems to interrupt conflicts. IRQ2 is the default setting for 
some Ethernet boards when they come out of the box. On a PC-AT, 
this interrupt is used for the second drive controller, and a conflict 
can shut off the whole second controller which includes the hard 
disk. On the PC/XT and PC compatible computers, IRQ5 is 
sometimes assigned to the hard disk rather than LPT2. Strange 
hard disk problems like disk write errors may be caused by the 
Ethernet conflicting with the hard disk.

Moral:  Set your Ethernet board to an unused interrupt.


Domain Name Lookup

When NCSA Telnet cannot find a name in the configuration file, 
it can still find the IP number if you are running a domain 
nameserver. To use the domain system, at least one host must be 
running the nameserver and the configuration file must have a 
nameserver entry for that host. There may be more than one. If 
one nameserver fails to respond, the one with the next higher 
precedence is queried. As soon as a response is received, NCSA 
Telnet will add its name to the status line and attempt to open a 
telnet connection. 

When you enter a name to open a connection, NCSA Telnet follows 
specific search order:

1.	It looks up the name as a session name from the configuration 
file.

2.	It looks up the name as a hostname from the configuration file.

3.	It sends the name as a domain query to the first nameserver.

4.	If the domain request times out, the program repeats the query, 
but to another nameserver. NCSA Telnet repeats this process 
until it reaches the maximum number of retries or receives a 
response.

With the domain nameserver, the number of hosts in the 
configuration file can be kept to a minimum. Each host in the 
configuration file will be a commonly used computer that may 
have special screen color or scrollback requirements. The IP 
addresses for rarely used hosts will be accessible if the domain 
name retrieval system can resolve those hosts.


FTP Password Protection

The presence of the passfile keyword in the configuration file 
enables FTP password protection. If you have a password file, FTP 
will not allow any FTP connections to open without a correct 
username and password. You can have several usernames and 
individual passwords for each user. The password file can be 
easily read by typing out the file. The passwords are encrypted, but 
not with a secure encryption system. Only trusted users should be 
allowed access to the password file. 

NOTE:  Precautionary measures are especially important now 
that the FTP server allows the person connected to the PC to create 
and remove directories and files.

To create or change passwords for users, run a separate program 
called Telpass. This program reads in the password file so you 
can add and change users and passwords. There are no special 
installation instructions for Telpass as it is menu-driven. Start up 
Telpass from DOS with the name of the password file that you wish 
to edit.

C:\ telpass pwfile

Telpass automatically saves the list of names and passwords when 
you exit. Just add a passfile option to your configuration file to 
enable FTP passwords.
Compatibility Notes

Ping
NCSA Telnet responds to ping (ICMP echo) requests. Other hosts 
use this command by other hosts to determine whether your PC is 
online.


VT102
The VT102 emulator is nearly complete. VT102 features not 
emulated are double width and double height characters, VT52 
mode, origin mode for cursor positioning, and 132 column mode. 
Included in the emulator are variable spaced tabs, graphics 
characters, keypad modes, and character attributes. 


FTP
The FTP server in NCSA Telnet is close to the DARPA 
specification of the minimum implementation. Exceptions are the 
following:

•	The command connection does not perform telnet negotiation.
•	The block mode of FTP is not supported.
•	Some error conditions may display as command not 
understood instead of returning more appropriate messages.

FTP has not been thoroughly tested on low-bandwidth or low-
reliability networks. It should be most successful on local 
networks, with unknown throughput for long-haul or satellite 
networks. 


Terminate and Stay 
Resident (TSR) Programs
Programs such as SideKick from Borland International Inc. take 
complete control of the PC when they are initiated with key 
sequences. The use of these programs does not crash NCSA Telnet, 
but it suspends the network communications capability while the 
TSR program is active. When network communications are 
suspended, whether from the ALT-E DOS escape feature or from 
using TSR programs, it takes the host approximately one minute to 
decide that your PC has crashed, and then it cuts you off. As long as 
these programs are used for short (less than 30 seconds) intervals, 
you should have no problem. 


NCSA Telnet
The standard telnet protocol has several potential options that can 
be invoked if both parties of the telnet connection agree. NCSA 
Telnet refuses most of these options, but accepts the following: 
echo, option 1; suppress go ahead, option 3, termtype, option 24, 
NAWS (Negotiate About Window Size), option 31; and Linemode, 
option 34. Some obscure features of NCSA Telnet are not 
implemented in this version:  out-of-band interrupts are not 
available, go ahead signals do nothing, and telnet acknowledge 
signals are not acknowledged. If there are any problems with the 
limitations of NCSA Telnet, please submit a bug report.

Limitations
There is a 20-session limit for NCSA Telnet. This limit is 
somewhat arbitrary and may be altered if there appears to be a need 
for it. NCSA Telnet can run out of memory, often before the 20-
session limit. You are notified on the screen if this happens.

NCSA Telnet Version 2.3 source code and documentation are in the public 
domain. Specifically, we give to the public domain all rights for future 
licensing of the source code, all resale rights, and all publishing rights.

We ask, but do not require, that the following message be included in all 
derived works:   Portions developed at the National Center for 
Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign.

READ ME NOW
If you want to see more software like NCSA Telnet, please send us a letter, 
email or US mail, telling us what you are doing with NCSA Telnet. We need 
to know:  (1) What science you are working on—an abstract of your work 
would be fine; and (2) How NCSA Telnet has helped you, for example, by 
increasing your productivity or allowing you to do things you could not do 
before.

We encourage you to cite the use of NCSA Telnet, and any other NCSA 
software you have used, in your publications. A bibliography of your work 
would be extremely helpful.

NOTE:  This is a new kind of shareware. You share your science and 
successes with us, and we can get more resources to share more software 
like NCSA Telnet with you.

NCSA Contacts
Mail user feedback, bugs, and 
software and manual suggestions to:

Software Tools Group
NCSA Telnet
152 Computing Applications Bldg.
605 E. Springfield Ave. 
Champaign, IL 61820


Send communications via electronic 
mail to one of the following:

Bug Reports
pctelnet@ncsa.uiuc.edu
pctelnet@ncsavmsa.bitnet

Disclaimer
THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS GIVES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, FOR THE SOFTWARE AND/OR DOCUMENTATION 
PROVIDED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTY OF 
MERCHANTIBILITY AND WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Trademark 
Acknowledgments
AppleTalk is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.
Enhanced Graphics Adapter, IBM PC, PC/AT, PC-DOS, Personal System/' 
	and Topview are registered trademarks of International Business 
	Machines 
EtherCard PLUS is a trademark of Western Digital Corporation.
Ethernet is a trademark of Xerox Corporation.
Hercules is a trademark of Hercules Computer Technology.
	Corporation.
Microsoft Windows and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Microsoft 
	Corporation.
NIC is a trademark of Ungermann-Bass.
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.
Revolution 512 is a trademark of Number Nine Computer. 
SideKick is a registered trademark of Borland International Inc.
Tektronix 4010 and Tektronix 4014 are trademarks of Tektronix 
	Corporation.
Sun is a registered trademark and Sun Workstation and Sunview are trademarks of
	Sun Microsystems Inc.
3COM and Etherlink are trademarks of 3COM Corporation.
UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T.
VAX, VMS, and VT102 are registered trademarks of Digital Equipment 
	Corporation.

A.1	NCSA Telnet 

Error Conditions	A.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991

                                                              


June 1991




Appendix A	Error Conditions



Most of the error conditions in NCSA Telnet are nonfatal. The 
most important and common error messages are listed here with a 
short summary of the symptoms and causes.

The following messages may appear on your screen during the 
operation of NCSA Telnet. Any other messages that appear are 
protocol-specific messages that require additional diagnosis from 
the system administrator. If a message that is not documented here 
occurs repeatedly, please contact your system administrator first, 
and if no solution is found, submit a bug report as included in the 
Readme and Bugs pages of this manual.


Error in config.tel file

Cause:
NCSA Telnet will not operate without a configuration file that 
contains the PC's IP address. The program could not find this file.

Solution: 
You can place the configuration file either in the current directory 
or specify it with the -h parameter on the command line. You 
normally customize the file's placement in TELNET.BAT. Your 
system administrator should check your installation and make 
sure the configuration file is there.


Host machine not in hosts file

Cause: 
You have entered a machine name that the program can't find in 
the configuration file. 

Solution: 
Check that the name you entered was spelled correctly. If you want 
this computer to be accessed by name, add its name and IP address 
to your configuration file.


ICMP:	Destination unreachable

Cause: 
Another machine––probably the gateway––has determined that 
your message cannot reach its destination from your system.
Solution: 
Check the IP address in your configuration file. Notify your 
system administrator that the gateway cannot connect you to the 
destination you want to reach. A problem may exist with the 
gateway.


ICMP:	Echo requested (ping requested)

Cause: 
Someone has "pinged" your machine.

Solution: 
No action is required; you are just being notified that a program on 
another computer has tried to determine if your machine is alive 
and connected to the network. Your machine answered "yes".


ICMP:	Redirect, another gateway is more efficient

Cause: 
NCSA Telnet is sending packets to a gateway that is reforwarding 
them onto your local network. You will get one of these messages 
for each packet until NCSA Telnet adjusts the local tables and 
automatically switches to the correct gateway.

Solution: 
NCSA Telnet responds to these messages and automatically 
switches to the correct gateway, so you don't have to take any 
action. You may want to change the gateway assignments in your 
configuration file to use a more appropriate gateway.  Some 
situations will always produce redirects.


Local HOST or gateway not responding

Cause: 
Possible reasons this error occurs are: a network problem, a 
configuration file problem, the computer you want to connect to is 
down, or the gateway that you need is down.

Solution: 
If the computer is on your local network, check to see that the 
network is up and running. If the computer is not on your local 
network, check to see if the gateway is up and running. Ask the 
system administrator to check the specification of the gateway 
(gateway=) in your configuration file. Check the IP number of the 
computer that you are trying to connect to. Check to make sure that 
your computer is attached to the network. Check the integrity of the 
network cable.


Memory allocation error, cannot open port

Cause: 
Your system ran out of memory. This reason is the most common 
barrier to opening more sessions.

Solution: 
Log off of some of your sessions or provide more memory in which 
NCSA Telnet can run. Providing more memory may mean 
buying more or rearranging your windowing system to allow 
more memory. NCSA Telnet Version 2.3 requires about 300K of 
memory plus 15K per session. In addition, scrollback requires 86 
bytes per line.


Network jammed, probable break in wire

Cause: 
The PC's Ethernet board could not transmit a packet due to a low-
level hardware error.

Solution: 
The system administrator should ensure that the Ethernet T 
connector or transceiver is correctly connected to the back of your 
PC, then check the integrity of the Ethernet wire according to 
Ethernet specifications. There could be a short circuit in the wire, 
but the usual cause is that the wire has been disconnected 
somewhere.


No internal TCP ports available

Cause: 
You are trying to do too many activities at the same time, or some 
combination of your activities has not closed the TCP sessions 
correctly. This error will happen if you open too many sessions to 
other computers.

Solution: 
Close some of your existing sessions. If necessary, exit the 
program by logging off of all of the other computers, then restart 
NCSA Telnet.


Packet received for invalid port -- reset sent

Cause: 
Some other computer is sending you packets that NCSA Telnet does 
not expect or understand. This error often happens when you press 
CTRL-SHIFT-F3 to exit NCSA Telnet and then try to start it back 
up again. It can happen under a variety of network breakdown 
conditions.

Solution: 
Do not press CTRL-SHIFT-F3 to exit NCSA Telnet. If you already 
have, or some other network breakdown caused the problem, the 
other computer will eventually time out and stop sending you the 
extra packets. If you continue to receive them, notify your system 
administrator.


Reset received: syn sent

Cause: 
The machine to which you are attempting to connect is refusing 
your telnet connection.

Solution: 
Check to see why that machine is not up and running. If it is, check 
your configuration file to see if you are using the correct IP 
number.


Domain Look-up failed for: <machine>

Cause:
The nameservers you've specified in the hosts file are not aware of 
the machine. Also, you may have misspelled a machinename.

Solution:
Check the spelling of the name you've entered. If you've entered 
the name correctly, add that machine to your host configuration 
file. Alternatively, you may want to add another machine as a 
nameserver in your host file.
B.1	NCSA Telnet 

NCSA Telnet Command Reference	B.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                              


June 1991




Appendix B	NCSA Telnet Command Reference



This appendix describes what happens when you enter different 
keyboard commands during a NCSA Telnet session.

Key(s)	Action

ALT-A	adds a session.

ALT-B	takes you back a session (in the list of 
	sessions you have opened).

ALT-C	toggles capture file on and off.

ALT-D	dumps the current screen into the capture 	file.

ALT-E	escapes to a DOS shell.

ALT-F	starts file transfer as if typed:
	ftp [internet address].

ALT-G	displays the Graphics menu.

ALT-H	displays the Help screen.

ALT-I	sends the internet address to the host.

ALT-K	erases a character.

ALT-N	takes you to  the next session (in the list of sessions 
	you have open).

ALT-O	aborts output.

ALT-P	changes a parameter; one of: color, capture 
	file name, backspace, session name, screen 
	mode, etc.

ALT-Q	sends the query, Are you there?

ALT-R	resets the VT100 screen.

ALT-S	skips scroll and jumps ahead.

ALT-U	erases the line.

ALT-V	copies text from clipboard onto the current 
	session.
Key(s)	Action

ALT-W	sends your password when you're FTPing 
	back to your PC.

ALT-X	closes the connection.

ALT-Y	interrupts the process.

ALT-Z	displays the Message screen.

CTRL-HOME	clears/enters graphics mode.
	
CTRL-SHIFT-F3	aborts NCSA Telnet completely. Use of this 
	command is strongly discouraged

HOME	exits graphics mode.

SCR LOCK	pauses/restarts the screen (do not use 
	CTRL-NUM LOCK)

SCR LOCK	enters/exits the scrollback mode


The following keys allow you to move around the screen while 
you're in Scroll Lock mode:

•arrow keys (up, down, left, and right)

•PageUp/PageDown (moves up and down by page)

•Home (moves to the beginning of the scrollback buffer)

•End (moves to the end of the scrollback buffer)
C.1	NCSA Telnet 

Configuration File Summary	C.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991

                                                              

June 1991




Appendix C	Configuration File Summary



This appendix contains a quick reference list of the keyword 
values which NCSA Telnet allows in its configuration file. 

There are two sections in this appendix. The first list contains the 
PC configuration entries which apply to the overall program or to 
all sessions. The second section contains the list of attributes 
which you may assign to individual sessions. Each keyword has 
an example value and a one-line summary of its purpose. For 
details on allowed values, see Chapter 7, "Installation and 
Configuration." A template CONFIG.TEL file is included on the 
distribution disk.


Local Configuration

address=d000	gives segment address of the Ethernet 
	board's shared memory in hex.

arptime=3	gives local network timeout for ARP 
	requests.

bios=no	uses BIOS or write directly to screen.

broadcast=x.x.x.x	uses IP number for broadcast 
	packets.

capfile="\mycapture"	specifies a name for the capture file.

capfile=prn	specifies capture file is printer device 
	(PRN).

clock=off	displays clock on screen.

domain="ncsa.uiuc.edu"	gives default domain suffix.

domaintime=2	gives domain lookup timeout per retry.

domainretry=4	gives number of times to query domain 
	nameserver(s).

ftp=yes	enables or disables FTP server , default is 
	yes.

hardware=3C501	assigns type of Ethernet hardware to use:  
	3C501, PCNIC, NI5210, WD8003, 3C523, 
	NICPS2, etc. (See introduction for 
	complete list of Ethernet adapter board 
	list.)

hpfile=COM1	attaches HP plotter to COM1.

hpfile=hp.out	assigns filename for HPGL codes for 
	graphics to go to.

interrupt=3	gives interrupt number for the Ethernet 
	board.

ioaddr=360	gives I/O base address of the Ethernet 
	board in hex.

myip=BOOTP	queries the BOOTP server for my IP 
	address.

myip=RARP	queries the RARP server for my IP 
	address.

myip=10.0.0.51	assigns IP address to use for the PC.

netmask=255.255.255.0	sets subnet mask for your local 
	network. 

passfile="\mypasswd"	gives filename for FTP usernames and
	passwords.

psfile=ps.out	gives filename for PostScript output.

rcp=yes	enables and disables rcp server, default is 
	yes.

tekfile=tek.out	assigns filename for Tektronix 4014 codes 
	when output to disk.

tek=yes	enables and disables Tektronix 
	graphics mode.

termtype="vt100"	sends terminal type to all machines 
	you've attempted to connect to.

video=ega	assigns video display to use: cga, ega, 
	hercules, no9.

windowgoaway=yes	Close the telnet window without 
	prompting when a machine's session 
	closes.

wire=thin	determines which type of ethernet 
	connection (thin or thick) the 3C503 
	ethernet card is using.

Host-Specific Parameters

NOTE: The keyword name is special because it separates entries.

clearsave=yes	saves cleared screen into scrollback region.

contime=10	sets connection timeout in seconds.

copyfrom=nic	copies all missing parameters from a previous 
	session.

crmap=4.3BSDCRNUL	changes sets of codes for carriage return.

duplex=half	sets local echo, but sends all character 
	immediately.

erase=delete	sets BACKSPACE key to "backspace" or 
	"delete."

gateway=1	sets gateway precedence; starts at 1, goes up by 
	ones.

host=sri-nic.arpa	sets hostname or alternate name. Usually full 
	domain name.

hostip=10.0.0.51	sets IP address of the host. Required if 
	nameserver not used.

maxseg=512	sets limit on incoming packet size, given as TCP 
	MSS option.

mtu=512	establishes limit on outgoing packet size.

name=nic	sets session name, separates lists of 
	parameters for sessions.

nameserver=1	sets nameserver precedence; starts at 1, goes up 
	by ones.

nbcolor=black	gives normal background color.

nfcolor=white	gives normal foreground color.

rbcolor=white	gives reverse background color.

retrans=7	sets initial retransmit timeout in 18ths of a 
	second.

rfcolor=black	sets reverse, foreground color.

rwin=512	sets TCP receive window, can make up for low 
	performance hardware.

scrollback=100	establishes number of lines of scrollback for this 
	session.

ubcolor=black	designates underline, background color. Black, 
	blue, green, cyan, red, magenta, yellow, white.

ufcolor=blue	designates underline, foreground color.

D.2	NCSA Telnet


FTPBIN Command Reference	D.3


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                              


June 1991





Appendix D	FTPBIN Command Reference



	This appendix describes the FTPBIN commands that 
	NCSA Telnet uses.

Command	Action

?	prints  help information.

!	escapes to a MS-DOS shell.

account	allows entering of account data for hosts which 
	require this information to log in.

ascii	sets the transfer type to ASCII--this command will 
	do some translation, so do not use this mode to 
	transfer files which are not ASCII text.

bget	gets (transfers from remote machine to local PC) a 
	specified file in binary mode.

binary	sets the transfer type to binary--this mode will do 
	no translation of end-of-line characters, etc., so do 
	not use it to transfer ASCII text files.

bput	puts (transfers from local PC to remote host) a 
	specified file in binary mode.

bye	closes any open session and quits FTPBIN.

close	closes any open session, but does not exit FTPBIN.

delete	deletes a file on the remote machine. Prompts for 
	confirmation if prompting is on.

debug	sets the level of debugging (default 0). This 
	is mainly for developmental purposes, and 
	should not be necessary for normal use.

dir	gives a directory listing of the remote directory.

get	gets (transfers form remote host to local PC) a 
	single specified file.

glob	toggles expansion of wildcard characters in local 
	filenames.

hash	toggles hashing mode.  If hashing mode is on, 
	every time a full buffer (usually 1024 bytes-1K 
	bytes) is transferred, a "#" symbol will be printed.
help	performs the same function as the "?" command.

interactive	puts FTPBIN into interactive mode--i.e. turns 
	prompting on.

lls	gives a listing of the local directory.

ls 	gives a listing of the remote directory (same as 
	dir).

mdelete	sets multiple deletion of remote files.

mdir	lists of multiple remote directories (i.e. runs "ls" on 
	more than one remote directory).

mget	gets (transfers from remote host to local PC) 
	multiple files. For example, "mget*" will copy all 
	files in the current remote directory to the current 
	local directory.

mkdir	makes a directory on the remote host's drive.

mls	lists the contents of multiple remote directories.

mode	sets file transfer mode. Currently, only stream 
	mode is supported, so this command does not 
	function.

more	toggles (or expressly turns "on" or "off", if "on" 
	or "off" is specified after the more command) the 
	"more" paging of directories.  That is, if "more" is 
	turned on, you will see listed directories a page at a 
	time, instead of all of the data being scrolled 
	through without stopping.

mput	puts (transfers from local PC to remote host) 
	multiple files. For example, "mput*" will transfer 
	all files in the current local directory to the current 
	remote directory.

noninteractive	puts FTPBIN into non-interactive mode--i.e. turns 
	prompting off.

open	opens a connection to the specified host.

prompt	toggles the current prompting mode--if prompting 
	is on, it is turned off, and if it is off, it is turned on. 
	Prompting means that FTPBIN will prompt you 
	or every file if you request a multiple file transfer, 
	deletion, or directory.

put	puts (transfers from local PC to remote host) a 
	single specified file.

pwd	displays the current directory on the remote 
	machine.
quit	closes any open session and quits FTPBIN. (same 
	as the command "bye").

quote	sends an arbitrary FTP command.

recv	receives a file.

remotehelp	queries the remote host for help information.

rename	renames a file on the remote host.

rm	deletes a file on the remote host.

rmdir	deletes a directory on the remote host.

send 	performs same functions as the "put" command--
	transfers a file from the local PC to the remote 
	host.

sendport	toggles the use of the FTP PORT command for 
	each data connection/transfer.

site	supports the SITE command for hosts that require 
	SITE information.

slashflip	toggles changing of "\" on outgoing commands.

status	displays the current status of FTPBIN--i.e. 
	if connected (and to where), current transfer 
	mode, debugging level, prompting mode, 
	slashflipping, verbosity, more mode-basically, the 
	status of anything that can be changed in an 
	FTPBIN session.

struct	sets the file transfer structure. Currently only file 
	structure is supported.

type	sets transfer type.  See "binary" and "ascii" 
	commands.

user	prompts for user information (i.e. login ID and 
	password)-this command is useful if your first 
	login attempt fails. Type user and retype your 
	login information.

verbose	toggles verbose mode (i.e. sets the amount of 
	information you will receive on your display).

E.1	NCSA Telnet


Key-mapping	E.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                              


June 1991





Appendix  E	Key-mapping



Overview
NCSA Telnet for the PC incorporates many of the key-mapping 
elements found in the MS-Kermit program. Because of this 
adaptation, we've included the following Appendix, which except 
for minor changes, contains excerpts that appear exactly as they 
did in the MS-Kermit documentation. Copyright information 
granting the use of this segment is cited below.


Copyright Information
Copyright (C)  1981, 1988
Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York

Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, 
or redistribute this document so long as it is not sold for profit, and 
provided this copyright notice is retained.


Kermit Verb Usage
NCSA Telnet contains a subset of the Kermit verbs listed below. 
Kermit verbs with a star are supported while unmarked verbs will 
cause an error if they are in a keyboard mapping file. Also 
included is a utility from the MS-Kermit 2.32 distribution which 
will determine what the actual kermit key code is for any 
combination of keys. Use this in the telnet keyboard mapping file 
as the code to map from. See the telnet.key file included with this 
release for an example keyboard mapping file.

NCSA Telnet does not support the extended SET KEY options such 
as:

SET KEY ON, SET KEY OFF, or SET KEY CLEAR

Also, it is impossible to map the ALT+alphabetical keys to 
anything with the keyboard mapping interface. NCSA Telnet traps 
these internally before they actually reach the mapping interface.


Set Key

Syntax
SET KEY key-specified {key-definition}


Uses of SET KEY
•	You're used to having the ESC key in the upper-left corner of the 
keyboard, but your new PC keyboard has an accent grave (" ' ") 
key there. You can use SET KEY to make the accent key 
transmit an ESC, and you can assign accent grave to some other 
key.

•	You send a lot of electronic mail, and always sign it the same 
way. You can put your "signature" on a single key to save 
yourself a lot of repetitive typing.

•	You must set up your PC's function keys or numeric keypad to 
work properly with a host application.

The SET KEY command does these things and more, while SHOW 
KEY gives us assistance. A key can be defined to:

•	send a single character other than what it would normally send
•	send a string of multiple characters
•	send itself again

SET KEY specifies that when you press the designated key during 
terminal emulation, the specified character or string is sent or the 
specified Kermit action verb is performed.

Using the SET KEY command, you create a key-specifier. The 
key-specifier is the identification of the key expressed in system-
dependent terms. This key can be a letter, such as Q for the key 
which produces an uppercase Q, or the numeric ASCII value of the 
letter in backslash notation (e.g., "\81"), or else the numerical 
"scan code: observed by the system when the key is pressed (e.g., 
"\3856" for CTRL-ALT-SHIFT-Q on an IBM PC). Material 
printed on keycaps is not necessarily a guide to what the key-
specifier should be.

A string definition is one or more characters, including 8-bit 
values expressed in backslash form, such as

SET KEY	\315 directory\13	IBM F1 key sends 	
		"directory<cr>"

SET KEY	S  X	S key sends upper case X
		(a mean trick)

SET KEY	T  \27 [m	T key sends three bytes:  
			ESC, [, m

SET KEY	\2336  {del } xxx	ALT-D sends "del"
SET KEY	\324  \Kexit	F10 escapes back to Kermit-MS> 
		prompt.

The string begins with the first non-spacing character following 
the key identification and continues until the end of line, 
exclusive of any trailing spaces. You can use curly braces, {...} 
can be used to delimit the string in case you want the definition to 
include trailing spaces. The program ignores all text after the 
closing bracket.

This manual does not contain a list of all the scan codes for all the 
keys on all the keyboards on all the PCs supported by NCSA Telnet. 
In order to obtain the scancode for a key, you must use the scanchek 
utility.


Kermit Action Verbs

An action verb is the shorthand expression for a named Kermit 
procedure, such as "generate the proper sequence for a left arrow," 
"show status," "send a BREAK," and others; verbs are complex 
actions and each verb has a name. In a key definition precede the 
verb name by a backslash K (\K) to avoid being confused with a 
string. You cannot assign verbs and strings together on a key.

Entering the commands:

SET KEY \331 \Klfarr
SET KEY \2349 \Kexit

makes the IBM keyboard left arrow key execute the verb named 
lfarr, which sends the proper escape sequence for a VT102 left 
arrow key (which changes depending on the internal state of the 
VT102). The leading \K identifies the definition as a Kermit verb, 
so no string can start as \K or as \{K in upper or lower case (use 
\92K). The second example has ALT-X invoking the Leave-
Connect-Mode verb "exit" (same as Kermit escape  character "^]" 
followed by C).

Each system has its own list of verbs and predefined keys. Table 
E.1 shows those available for the IBM PC family (there are also 
some additional verbs for reassigning Heath or VT100 function 
keys, see section 1.17.2 of the original Kermit documentation). 
The SET KEY command shows the list of available verbs when a 
query mark (?)  is given as a definition. 

Table E.1	MS-Kermit Verbs 
for the IBM PC 
Family
Verb	Meaning

\Kupscn	Roll up (back) to previous screen
\Kdnscn	Roll down (forward) to next screen
\Khomscn	Roll up to top of screen memory
\Kendscn	Roll down to end of screen memory (current 
	position)
\Kupone	Roll screen up one line
\Kdnone	Roll screen down one line
\Kprtscn	Print the current screen
\Kdump	Append the current screen to dump file
\Kholdscrn	Toggle hold screen mode
\Klogoff	Turn off session logging
\Klogon	Turn on session logging
\Ktermtype	Toggle terminal type
\Kreset	Reset terminal emulator to initial state
\Kmodeline	Toggle modeline off/on
\Kbreak	Send a BREAK signal
\Klbreak	Send a "long BREAK" signal
\Khangup	Drop dTR so modem will hang up phone
*\Knull	Send a null (ASCII 0)
\Kdos	"Push" to DOS
\Khelp	Display CONNECT help message
\Kstatus	Display STATUS message
\Kterminals	Invoke user-defined macro TERMIANLS, if any
\Kterminalr	Invoke user-defined macro TERMINALR, if any
\Kexit	Escape back from CONNECT mode
*\Kgold, \Kpf1	VT102 keypad function key PF1
*\Kpf2..\Kpf4	VT102 keypad function keys
*\Kkp0..\Kkp9	VT102 keypad numeric keys

Other VT102 keypad keys:
*\Kkpdot, \Kkpminus, \Kkpcoma, \Kkpenter

VT102 cursor (arrow) keys:
*\Kuparr, \Kdnarr, \Klfarr, \Krtarr


NOTE:  * signifies that NCSA Telnet 2.3 supports the verb.


F.1	NCSA Telnet 


Obtaining NCSA Software	F.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991


                                                              


June 1991





Appendix  F	Obtaining NCSA Software



Overview
This appendix uses NCSA HDF to outline the procedures for 
obtaining NCSA software via FTP, an archive server, or by 
regular mail.


Obtaining NCSA Software

FTP
If you are connected to Internet (NSFNET, ARPANET, MILNET, 
etc.) you can download HDF software and documentation at no 
charge from an anonymous file transfer protocol (FTP) server at 
NCSA. The steps you should follow to do so are enumerated below. 
If you have any questions regarding the connection or procedure, 
consult your local system administrator or network expert.

1.	Log on to a host at your site that is connected to Internet and is 
running software supporting the FTP command.

2.	Invoke FTP on most systems by entering the Internet address of 
the server:

	%  ftp  ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu

	or

	%  ftp  141.142.20.50

3.	Log in by entering anonymous for the name.

4.	Enter your e-mail address for the password.

5.	Enter get README.FIRST to transfer the instructions file 
(ASCII) to your local host.

6.	Enter quit to exit FTP and return to your local host.

7.	Review the README.FIRST file for complete instructions 
concerning the organization of the FTP directories and the 
procedures you should follow to download the README files 
specific to the application you want.

Your login session should resemble the following sample, where 
the remote user's name is smith and user entries are indicated in 
boldface type.
harriet_51%  ftp ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu
Connected to zaphod.
220 zaphod FTP server (Version 4.173 Tue Jan 31 08:29:00 CST 
1989) ready.
Name (ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu: smith):  anonymous
331 Guest login ok, send ident as password.
Password:  smith
230 Guest login ok, access restrictions apply.
ftp>  get README.FIRST
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for README.FIRST (10283 
bytes).
226 Transfer complete.
local:  README.FIRST  remote:  README.FIRST
11066 bytes received in .34 seconds (32 Kbytes/s)
ftp>  quit
221 Goodbye.
harriet_52%


The README.FIRST file instructs you to copy the HDF README 
file to your directory and read it before proceeding. Your FTP 
session should resemble the one listed below:

ftp>	cd HDF
250 CWD command successful.
ftp>	get README
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for README (10283 bytes)
226 Transfer complete.
local:  README	remote:  README
2080 bytes received in .14 seconds (15 Kbytes/s)
ftp>	quit
221 Goodbye.
harriet_52%


The HDF README file explains how to copy the contents of the 
HDF directory to your home directory via remote login or 
anonymous FTP. The precise file transfer procedure varies 
according to the type of operating system under which you will use 
HDF—UNICOS or other.


Archive Server
To obtain NCSA software via an archive server:

1.	E-mail a request to:

	archive-server@ncsa.uiuc.edu

2.	Include in the subject or message line, the word "help."

3.	Press RETURN.

4.	Send another e-mail request to:

	archive-server@ncsa.uiuc.edu

5.	Include in the subject or message line, the word "index."
6.	Press RETURN.

For example, if you use the UNIX mailing system, your login 
session should resemble the following sample, where user entries 
are indicated in boldface type.

yoyodyne_51% mail archive-server@ncsa.uiuc.edu
Subject:  help

.
EOT
Null message body; hope that's ok
yoyodyne_52% mail archive-server@ncsa.uiuc.edu
Subject:  index
.
EOT
Null message body; hope that's ok


The information you receive from both the help and index 
commands will give you further instructions on obtaining NCSA 
software. This controlled-access server will e-mail the 
distribution to you one segment at a time.


Mail
HDF software and manuals are available for purchase—either 
individually or as part of the anonymous FTP reel or cartridge 
tapes—through the NCSA Technical Resources Catalog. Orders 
can only be processed if accompanied by a check in U.S. dollars 
made out to the University of Illinois. To obtain a catalog, contact:

NCSA Documentation Orders
152 Computing Applications Building
605 East Springfield Avenue
Champaign, IL  61820
(217) 244-0072






Bugs and Suggestions

Please notify us of any bugs you have found in our software and any 
suggestions you have for future releases or products.

Using the report form below, mail user feedback, bugs, or software 
suggestions via U.S. mail to:

NCSA Software Tools Group
152 Computing Applications Bldg.
605 East Springfield Avenue
Champaign, IL 61820

Send reports regarding bugs, software suggestions or comments via 
electronic mail to:

pctelnet@ncsa.uiuc.edu
pctelnet@ncsavmsa.bitnet



Name:			

Institution:		


Address (Electronic):		


Address (U.S. Mail):		

	

	


Telephone:   (          )                   –                           .

Version of NCSA Telnet:	Type machine:	

Version of system software:	


Suggestion or description of problem:

	

	

	

	

	








Place
Stamp
Here


NCSA Software Tools Group
Telnet
152 Computing Applications Building
605 East Springfield Avenue
Champaign, IL 61820

i	NCSA Telnet

Introduction	i

National Center for Supercomputing Applications

June 1991

                                                              


June 1991



Introduction





Overview

This introduction presents an overview of the capabilities and 
features of NCSA Telnet. The organization and use of this manual 
are described and notational conventions explained.


About NCSA Telnet

NCSA Telnet Version 2.3 for the PC provides interactive access 
from an IBM PC or compatible to telnet hosts on TCP/IP networks. 
NCSA Telnet is an implementation of DARPA standard telnet 
with added features that take advantage of the local processing 
power of the PC.


Special Features

Special features of NCSA Telnet for the PC include:

•	VT100 emulation
•	Local printer support for VT100 emulation
•	Simultaneous logon to a number of computers
•	Ability to capture text to the PC disk or printer
•	File transfer server (standard FTP)
•	Remote copy server (rcp) for use with UNIX hosts
•	Ability to take full advantage of PC colors
•	Topview/Windows compatibility
•	Tektronix 4014 emulation
•	Added applications such as:  lpr, lpq, lprm, rexec, rsh, finger, 
setclock (all similar to UNIX utilities)
•	Domain name lookup
•	Optional use of RARP and Bootp for determining PC's IP 
address 
•	Support for Linemode protocol
•	Scrollback with mouse support
•	Cut and paste capabilities for text between sessions
•	Keyboard mapping
•	Text output mapping
•	Better message routing of telnet options to console screen
•	Ability to dump screens to a capture file


 System Requirements

To use NCSA Telnet you must have the following hardware:

•	IBM PC, PC/XT, PC/AT, IBM PS/2 model 30, or "true" 
compatible computer with one of the following Ethernet adapter 
boards:

	Appletalk Card
	DecNet Card
	3COM 3C501 Etherlink 
	3COM 3C503
	3COM 3C505
	AT&T Starlan 10
	Western Digital WD8003EB
	MICOM NI5210 
	Ungermann-Bass PC-NIC (same as IBM Baseband Adapter)
	Western Digital WD8003E EtherCard PLUS

•	or IBM PS/2 models 50,60 or 80, or "true" compatible computer 
with one of the following Ethernet adapter boards:

	Ungermann-Bass NICps/2
	3COM 3C523 Etherlink/MC
	Western Digital WD8003A

•	The following adapters have been tested successfully with 
packet drivers:

	3Com's 3C501, 3C503, 3C505, 3C507, and 3C523
	Any SMC-mode ARCnet card
	Any AT&T Ethernet or StarLAN card
	D-Link Systems' DE-600 Pocket LAN Adapter
	Simulated driver over NetWare's IPX
	BICC Data Networks' ISOLAN
	Apple Computer's LocalTalk PC Card
	Sun/TOPS (Sitka) FlashCard
	Simulated driver over NetBIOS
	NCR's ET-105B
	Novell's NE1000, NE2000, and clones
	Racal-InterLan's NI5010, NI5210, NI6510, and NI9210
	Ungermann-Bass's NIC and NICps/2
	All Western Digital's models

•	384K minimum memory

•	Ethernet or Thin Ethernet to connect the PC and other computers

To use NCSA Telnet you must have the following software:

•	PC-DOS or MS-DOS Version 2.0 or later
•	a standard text editor (helpful when editing the configuration 
file)


Use of This Manual

This section describes the organization of this manual, and the 
conventions and nomenclature used in developing it.


Manual Contents
This manual is organized into the following chapters:

Chapter 1, "Starting and Quitting NCSA Telnet," describes how to 
start NCSA Telnet and how to open and close a connection between 
your PC and one remote host.

Chapter 2, "Introduction to Managing Sessions," introduces NCSA 
Telnet's capability for multiple connections. It also discusses 
standard VT100 key emulation, keys used for common EDT 
operations, and usage of a capture file.

Chapter 3, "More about Managing Sessions," discusses multiple 
sessions in detail. The Parameters menu options, DOS shell 
feature, and several advanced functions are also described.

Chapter 4, "Utility Programs," outlines in detail some helpful 
command programs which you can implement along with NCSA 
Telnet.

Chapter 5, "File Transfer," outlines procedures for transferring 
files between a PC and a telnet host.

Chapter 6, "Tektronix 4014 Emulation," discusses NCSA Telnet's 
ability to emulate a Tektronix 4014 graphics terminal.

Chapter 7, "Installation and Configuration," contains 
information for system administrators (and other experienced 
users) to use when installing and customizing a system.

Appendix A, "Error Conditions," describes some of NCSA Telnet's 
error messages, as well as their causes and solutions.

Appendix B, "NCSA Telnet Command Reference," lists 
commands available from the PC keyboard.

Appendix C, "Configuration File Summary," lists the keywords 
for configuration file parameters.

Appendix D, "FTPBIN Command Reference," describes the 
FTPBIN commands that the program uses.
Appendix E, "Key-mapping," details the key-mapping elements 
NCSA Telnet for the PC incorporates from the MS-Kermit 
program.

Appendix F, "Obtaining NCSA Software," outlines the procedures 
for obtaining NCSA software via FTP, an archive server, or U.S. 
mail.

Form of Presentation
Figure I.1 shows some typical screen/user interactions using the 
conventions employed in this manual. Those conventions, and 
others, are explained here.

Figure I.1	Example of 
Notational 
Conventions
C:\> telnet machinename [machinename...]

National Center for Supercomputing Applications
NCSA Telnet for the PC version 2.2
(c) Copyright 1987,1988 Board of Trustees of the University of 
Illinois

ALT-H presents a summary of special keys



4.2 BSD UNIX (newton)

login:



dothis	Information shown in courier boldface type 
	represents user entries.

ALT-key	Press and hold the ALT key and then press the 
	key designated by key. Then release both 
	keys at the same time.

variable	Do not enter the actual characters shown. 
	Command line characters shown in 
	lowercase courier bold italic type represent an 
	entry that may consist of different characters 
	every time you make the entry. In other 
	words, it is a variable entry. If it indicates a 
	machine response, it means the actual 
	wording of the response will vary, depending 
	on the filename, machinename, and so on.

...	Do not enter an ellipsis. The ellipsis 
	indicates that you may enter more material 
	similar to the material preceding the ellipsis.

[ ]	Do not enter square brackets. Material or 
	actions presented between square brackets is 
	optional and should be entered only in certain 
	cases.


i 	NCSA Telnet

Table of Contents	i


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                                









	Table of Contents




Introduction
Overview  xi
About NCSA Telnet  xi
Special Features  xi
System Requirements  xii
Use of This Manual  xiii
Manual Contents  xiii
Form of Presentation  xiv
Chapter 1	Starting and Quitting NCSA Telnet
Chapter Overview  1.1
Starting the Program  1.1
Using the Help Screen  1.2
Quitting NCSA Telnet  1.2
Chapter 2	Introduction to Managing Sessions
Chapter Overview  2.1
Keyboard Usage  2.1
Multiple Sessions  2.2
	Opening Multiple Initial Sessions  2.2
Using the Status Line  2.2
Opening Additional Sessions  2.2
Indicating the Host  2.2
Estimating the Host Response Time  2.3
Using Scrollback Mode  2.3
Using the Cut and Paste Functions  2.4
Switching Between Sessions (ALT-N)  2.4
Displaying Console Messages (ALT-Z)  2.5
Exiting the Present Connection (ALT-X)  
2.5
Capture File Operations  2.5
Designating a Capture File  2.5
Using PRN  2.5
Using One Capture at a Time  2.6
Chapter 3	More About Managing Sessions
Chapter Overview  3.1
Keyboard Commands  3.1
	Using the Skip Command (ALT-S) 3.1
Resetting the VT100 Screen  (ALT-R)  3.1
Aborting the Program  (CTRL-ALT-F3)  3.1
Escaping to DOS  Shell  (ALT-E)  3.1
Parameter Menu  3.2
Using Screen Text Colors  3.4
Using Remote Echo and Local Echo  3.4
Using the Backspace Key  3.5
Changing the Session Name  3.5
Changing the Terminal Type  3.5
Using Line Wrapping  3.6
Using Output Mapping  3.6
Changing the Capture Filename  3.6
Using Screen Mode  3.6
Using File Transfer Mode  3.6
Using Clock Mode  3.6
Chapter 4	Utility Programs
Chapter Overview  4.1
finger  4.1
	Name  4.1
	Command Line  4.1
	Description  4.1
	Options  4.2
ftp  4.3
	Name  4.3
	Command Line  4.3
	Description  4.3
	Options  4.3
	Commands  4.4
	Aborting a File Transfer  4.10
	File Naming Conventions  4.10
	File Transfer Parameters  4.10
lpq  4.11
	Name  4.11
	Command Line  4.11
	Description  4.11
	Options  4.11
	Diagnostics  4.12
lpr  4.13
	Name  4.13
	Command Line  4.13
	Description  4.13
	Options  4.13
	Diagnostics  4.16
lprm  4.16
	Name  4.16
	Command Line  4.16
	Description  4.16
	Options  4.17
	Diagnostics  4.17
net14  4.17
	Name  4.17
	Command Line  4.17
	Usage  4.18
	Options  4.18
rsh  4.18
	Name  4.18
	Command Line  4.18
	Description  4.18
setclock  4.20
	Name  4.20
	Command Line  4.20
	Description  4.20
	Options  4.20
Chapter 5	File Transfer
Chapter Overview  5.1
File Transfer Terminology  5.1
File Transfer Guidelines  5.2
Full Path Specification:  Conversion of 
Forward Slashes  5.2
Simultaneous Activity  5.2
Rules for Filenames Sent to the PC  5.2
File Transfer Reports  5.3
File Transfer Using FTP  5.3
Setting Up FTP  5.4
Using FTP  5.4
Invoking FTP on the Host Computer  5.4
Invoking FTP Using Alternate
Methods  5.5
Using FTP Commands  5.5
File Transfer Using rcp  5.8
Setting UP rcp  5.8
Using rcp  5.9
Avoiding Use NCSA Telnet's rcp 
Server  5.9
Using rcp Between the PC and UNIX  5.9
Using Wildcards  5.10
Chapter 6	Tektronix 4014 Graphics
Chapter Overview  6.1
Emulating a Tektronix 4014 Graphics 
Terminal  6.1
Initializing a Plotter  6.1
Setting the Configuration File  6.1
Switching to and from Graphics Mode  6.2
Graphics Mode  6.2
Text Mode  6.2
Using the Graphics Menu (ALT-G )  6.2
Writing Graphics Files to Disk  6.3
Renaming Graphics Output Files  6.3
Setting the Viewing Region 
(Zoom Factor)  6.3
Redrawing Last Image  6.4
Plotting a Stored File   6.4
Chapter 7	Installation and Configuration
Chapter Overview  7.1
Installing the Distribution Files  7.1
Sample Configuration  7.1
Required Configuration Information  7.2
The TELNET.BAT File  7.3
Command Line Options  7.3
The Configuration File  7.4
Overview  7.4
Syntax for Entries  7.5
PC Information Entries  7.5
Host-Specific Parameters  7.10
Conversion of UNIX /etc/hosts Files  7.14
Hardware Options  7.14
Combined Ethernet Drivers  7.14
Performance Tuning  7.15
RARP for Dynamic IP Address 
Assignment  7.16
BOOTP for Dynamic IP Address
Assignment  7.16
Appletalk Hardware  7.16
Interrupts  7.17
Domain Name Lookup  7.17
FTP Password Protection  7.18
Compatibility Notes  7.19
Ping  7.19
VT102  7.19
FTP  7.19
Terminate and Stay Resident (TSR) 
Programs  7.19
NCSA Telnet  7.19
Limitations  7.20
Appendix A	Error Conditions
Appendix B	NCSA Telnet Command Reference
Appendix C	Configuration File Summary
Local Configuration  C.1
Host-Specific Parameters  C.3
Appendix D	FTPBIN Command Reference
Appendix E	Key-mapping
Overview  E.1
Copyright Information  E.1
Kermit Verb Usage  E.1
Set Key  E.2
	Syntax  E.2
	Uses of Set Key  E.2
Kermit Action Verbs  E.3

Appendix F	Obtaining NCSA Software

Figures
Figure I.1	Example of Notational Conventions  xv
Figure 1.1	NCSA Telnet Help Screen  1.2
Figure 3.1	Parameter Menu  3.3
Figure 5.1	Put to the PC, ASCII File  5.7
Figure 5.2	Get from the PC, Binary File  5.7
Figure 6.1	Graphics Menu  6.2
Figure 6.2	Sample Viewing Regions  6.4
Figure 7.1	Displaying the Same Information in 
Different Entry Formats  7.5

Tables
Table 2.1	PC Keys Used for VT102 Terminal 
Emulation  2.1
Table 5.1	Common FTP Commands  5.6
Table 7.1	Ethernet Boards Supported by NCSA 
Telnet  7.14
Table E.1	MS-Kermit Verbs for the IBM PC 
Family  E.3

	














NCSA Telnet
for the IBM PC®

Version 2.3


June 1991






























University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
