3.1     NCSA Telnet


More About Managing Sessions    3.1


National Center for Supercomputing Applications


June 1991

                                                                




3.1     NCSA Telnet

More About Managing Sessions    3.1

National Center for Supercomputing Applications 

June 1991



6/30/91




Chapter 3       More About Managing Sessions



Chapter Overview
Keyboard Commands
Using the Skip Command (ALT-S)
Resetting the VT100 Screen (ALT-R)
Aborting the Program (CTRL-SHIFT-F3)
Escaping to DOS Shell (ALT-E)
Parameter Menu
Using Screen Text Colors
Using Remote Echo and Local Echo
Using the Backspace Key
Changing the Session Name
Changing the Terminal Type 
Using Line Wrapping
Using Output Mapping
Changing the Capture Filename
Using Screen Mode 
Using File Transfer Mode
Using Clock Mode

Chapter Overview

This chapter continues the discussion of multiple sessions and 
describes more advanced aspects of the NCSA Telnet working 
environment. The chapter explains how to reset the VT100 screen, 
how to abort NCSA Telnet, the DOS shell feature, and the 
Parameters menu options.


Keyboard Commands

Using the Skip Command 
(ALT-S)
The skip command causes the screen to "skip ahead" over 
scrolling text. The text is placed into the scrollback region, but the 
screen update advances to the end of the local network buffer 
instead of printing every line on the screen. This feature is useful 
for quickly bypassing seemingly endless lines of output from 
certain commands. To use the command, press ALT-S and the 
screen will pause, then redraw at the end of the local buffer. ALT-S 
won't solve all of the network buffering problems for interactive 
use, but it should help. Capture to disk and scrollback commands 
are not affected by the skip command.


Resetting the VT100 Screen 
(ALT-R)
ALT-R clears and resets all modes associated with the current 
virtual VT100 screen. Some host programs can accidentally set 
graphics mode on or fail to leave graphics mode. By pressing 
ALT-R, NCSA Telnet will override all VT100 mode settings 
including the following:  turning off wrap mode, resetting 
graphics mode, setting the keypad mode back to the default, and 
resetting tabs to every eight spaces. After using ALT-R, you may 
wish to set your terminal type again to allow the host to reset 
whatever VT100 modes it needs.


Aborting the Program 
(CTRL-SHIFT-F3)
If for some reason none of the current connections respond, 
SCROLL LOCK is not on, and ALT-R and ALT-X do not appear to 
have any effect, CTRL-SHIFT-F3 is a general abort command that 
exits NCSA Telnet and returns you to DOS. If you do abort NCSA 
Telnet with CTRL-SHIFT-F3, NCSA Telnet cannot notify the 
host(s) that your session(s) are terminated. Your sessions are left 
in an undetermined state. This situation can cause a variety of 
problems for the host, because it cannot immediately determine 
that the session has ended. For example, the programs may 
continue to run on the host, even though you exited NCSA Telnet 
with CTRL-SHIFT-F3.


Escaping to DOS Shell 
(ALT-E)
Pressing ALT-E to escape to DOS preserves your connections while 
you use the DOS command shell. You may use most DOS 
commands and programs, including those which look at 
directories, edit source files, or even compile programs. To return 
to NCSA Telnet, you must enter the command exit at the DOS 
prompt.
During the escape to DOS, NCSA Telnet monitors the Ethernet for 
incoming packets every one-half second. If you run other 
programs which affect the Ethernet or the timer which NCSA 
Telnet uses, your connections may be lost—or worse—your 
computer may crash. The following programs are examples of 
those which terminate the network handling of NCSA Telnet, 
causing connections to be lost or DOS to crash:

•       SideKick (it turns off timer processes, so it can cause lost 
connections)

•       All network programs (they reset the Ethernet board)

•       NCSA Telnet (it is a network program)

•       User FTP (it, too, is a network program)

•       format, the DOS format utility for floppy disks

•       FileCommand II

NOTE: Watch memory usage to prevent crashing. Also, 
remember to exit DOS when you have finished your DOS activities.

Parameter Menu

Press ALT-P to display the Parameter menu options, which appear 
on the screen as shown in Figure 3.1. These options control the 
settings for text color, echo mode, backspace key, session name, 
terminal type, capture file name, screen mode and file transfer 
mode. You can change the fields that are shown in bold to different 
values.

Figure 3.1      Parameter Menu

ALT-P                         Parameter menu
   <      Select parameters, F1 to accept, F10 to leave unchanged      >

   --------------- Color setup and session parameters -----------------
 Text:         normal    reverse   underline
        Normal Foreground (nfcolor)     -       green
        Normal Background (nbcolor)     -       black
        Reverse Foreground (rfcolor)    -       black
        Reverse Background (rbcolor)    -       white
        Underline Foreground (ufcolor)  -       blue
        Underline Background (ubcolor)  -       black
        Use remote echo or local echo   -       Remote echo
        Backspace key sends     -       Delete
        Session name    *>      ahostname
        Terminal type   -       VT102 and Tek4014
        Line Wrapping   -       Wrapping On
        Output Mapping  -       Mapping Off
   -------------- Parameters which apply to all sessions --------------
        Capture file name       *>      capfile
  Screen mode (for BIOS compatibility)  Direct to screen
        File transfer is        -       Enabled
        Remote Copying is       -       Enabled
        Clock is        Enabled


Use arrow keys to select, Enter clears changeable field (*>)


The up arrow, down arrow, HOME, and END keys allow you to 
move the cursor from option to option. The left and right arrow 
keys rotate through the allowed settings for each option. For each 
field that you wish to change, move the cursor to that field and press 
the left or right arrow until the desired value appears. After 
changing all of the fields that you wish to change, press the F1 key 
to return to your session with the changes in effect. If you make a 
mistake, or decide that no changes are necessary, press ESC to 
return to your session without any changes taking place.

There are two special fields, marked with the symbol *>, to 
indicate that the present value may be changed by typing another. 
To change one of these, place the cursor on top of the changeable 
field and then press RETURN. The program blanks the field and 
allows you to enter a new value. Press RETURN when you are 
finished entering the new value. After you enter a new value, but 
before you press F1, the old value still remains in memory and you 
may use the left or right arrow keys to regain the old value.

Following are descriptions of the parameters you can set.


Using Screen Text Colors
Host programs expect to be able to control the attributes of 
characters on the VT100 screen. Command codes are sent to your 
PC to display characters in normal, reverse, underlined, 
blinking, and bold attributes, or combinations of these. When 
normal, reverse, and underline text are required, you have control 
over which colors are used. When blink or bold attributes are 
required, NCSA Telnet adds them to your selected colors.

For normal, reverse, and underlined characters, NCSA Telnet 
gives you your choice of foreground and background colors, a total 
of six settings. The color choices for a PC color video display are 
black, blue, green, cyan, red, magenta, yellow, and white. The 
foreground color command allows bright versions of these colors, 
while the background color command allows users to set blinking 
as an attribute. For each of the text modes, normal, reverse, and 
underlined, use the Parameter menu to select the foreground and 
background colors. As you change the selections, the sample text 
on the fourth line of the screen provides an example of how the text 
will appear in the VT100 emulation.

On monochrome screens, when you display a character in the color 
blue, the PC produces a visible underline on the screen instead of 
blue coloring.

Color screens do not have the visible underline capability and use 
a visible blue color instead of underlining.

Bold and blinking attributes from the VT100 screen appear as bold 
and blinking characters on the PC screen.


Using Remote Echo and 
Local Echo
When the response time of the network is long (such as with 
satellite transmission), you may want to buffer your keyboard 
input locally, only sending characters to the host when you press 
RETURN. This action is often referred to as a line mode or local 
echo mode. The alternative to line mode is called character mode 
or remote echo mode, where the local program immediately sends, 
and remote host echoes, every character over the network.

In local echo mode, NCSA Telnet  buffers most characters typed at 
the keyboard until you press RETURN, which sends the characters 
to the host all in one packet. There are some exceptions to this rule.

•       CTRL-U erases the local buffer.

•       Backspace (CTRL-H) erases the most recent character added to 
the local buffer.

•       Tab (CTRL-I) forces NCSA Telnet to send the local buffer (with 
the tab).

•       All other control characters echo with a caret (e.g., ^A) and 
force NCSA Telnet to send the local buffer with the control 
character included.
•       Arrow keys and all other unprintable ASCII characters, the 
escape character for example, force NCSA Telnet to send the 
local buffer, with the character included.

•       You cannot send a CTRL-U or Backspace to the host in line 
mode.

•       ALT keys and other local command keys are not affected by 
local echo mode.

NOTE: For full screen editing, character mode (remote echo) is 
necessary, so most hosts use this mode. When full screen editing 
is not required, line mode may be more efficient.


Using the Backspace Key
NCSA Telnet automatically translates BACKSPACE keypresses 
into DELETE codes, for compatibility with systems that prefer the 
use of DELETE to BACKSPACE. If you find that your backspaces 
are not being accepted, the host you are connected to may prefer the 
reverse setting. To test this possibility, use the Parameter menu to 
change the default translation so the BACKSPACE key functions 
as backspace. If the result is that your backspaces are accepted, 
then the host does prefer the BACKSPACE to DELETE. If you 
require the reverse setting frequently, you or your system 
administrator may want to permanently reset the backspace 
function using the configuration file, as described in Chapter 7, 
"Installation and Configuration."


Changing the Session 
Name
The status line shows a 13-character session name for each active 
session in the lower right-hand corner. For each session, the 
machine name that you typed to initiate the first session displays 
as the default name for successive sessions. The Parameter menu 
allows you to change the status line name for the current session. 
Press RETURN to clear the current entry and type in a new name. 
Only the first 13 characters are used.


Changing the Terminal 
Type
Generally, the default terminal type of VT100 with Tektronix 4014 
is acceptable. Because specific cases may exist where you need to 
force some restrictions on the way the terminal acts, you may want 
to limit the amount of emulation that NCSA Telnet does. The three 
choices of terminal types are: 

•       VT100 terminal with Tektronix 4014 graphics

•       VT100 only—graphics commands ignored, but VT100 
commands accepted

•       Dumb terminal—no VT100 codes or Tektronix codes 
interpreted


Using Line Wrapping
If you enable the line wrapping feature, the text wraps when it 
reaches the end of a line. Otherwise, the text piles up at the end of 
the line.


Using Output Mapping
The output mapping function allows you to translate characters 
from the host machine as the screen displays them. This function 
is similar to keyboard mapping, except that keyboard mapping 
works in reverse.


Changing the Capture 
Filename
You can change the name of the current capture file in the 
Parameter menu. Press RETURN to clear the current entry and 
then enter your new filename. After changing the name of the 
capture file, all subsequent ALT-C commands use the new capture 
file. You can also change the name of the capture file 
"permanently" in the configuration file (see Chapter 7, 
"Installation and Configuration."). See Chapter 2, "Introduction 
to Managing Sessions," for a description of capture file operations.


Using Screen Mode (BIOS 
Compatibility for 
Windowing Packages)
In the normal fast mode, writes are made directly to the screen for 
increased speed; however, this mode is incompatible with 
windowing packages like Topview or Microsoft Windows and 
may cause snow on some screens. To avoid small problems, 
developers have created a compatibility mode within NCSA Telnet 
where IBM's BIOS calls are used for all access to the screen.

Usually, the windowing compatibility mode is set up in the 
configuration file with the bios option. However, if a change is 
needed once you are in the program, the Parameter menu option is 
available.


Using File Transfer Mode
NCSA Telnet separates the file transfer mode into an option for 
File Transfer Protocol (FTP) and an option for rcp. The 
Parameter menu allows you to disable or enable file transfers. 
When you select Disabled, neither FTP nor rcp is allowed. When 
you select Enabled, the FTP and rcp servers are restarted. Chapter 
5, "File Transfer," contains more information on the file transfer 
methods for NCSA Telnet. You or your system administrator can 
set the default file transfer modes for FTP and rcp in the 
configuration file (see Chapter 7, "Installation and 
Configuration.").


Using Clock Mode
When you enable the clock mode option, NCSA Telnet displays a 
digital clock in the corner of the screen.
